From: Richard Green <luckyrich@sbcglobal.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Little Jim, 2 up
Date: Mon, 16 Jun 2003 13:32:34 -0700 (PDT)

Alastair: I am very new to the group and to this design. It caught my eye immediately and I am very curious about your opinion of Paradox and its sailing and handling performance. Are you satisfied with the design? Does the specified rig work well? Does the lack of a keel hurt performance at all? How do you think it would perform in heavy winds. Thanks for the great pictures and the inspiration. Richard Green, California, USA  

Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk> wrote:

We were out on Poole Harbour again on Saturday. My son has finished his exams, so we had a day on the water together. we took along a dinghy, so I dropped him off with a camera and he got some photos of LJ under sail. I have posted them on www.asjg.clara.co.uk/little_jim/little_jim.htm and click on 'sailing'

While we were launching, and later on the water we met up with Larry, a new recruit to this site (Hi Larry!) He seemed to like what he saw of LJ and has stated an intention to build a Paradox of his own (or even 2!).

LJ handled fine with 2 on board, and for a day sail it was ok. There isn't room on the seat for 2 to sit comfortably, unless you want to be really cosy, so one of you has to sit inside. Larry made the good point that if you intend to sail 2 up then extending the opening hatch (concertina perhaps?) further forward would allow another seat and both could be outside.

We didn't find that we got in each others way at all, there was plenty of room and we were able to manoeuvre round each other without difficulty.

I still don't think that 2 could sleep comfortably unless they were very friendly. I suppose if you are the type who can sleep 2 up in a 2 man mountaineering tent them it might be ok, but I don't think I shall be trying it. Of course if you were seriously cruising then you could work watches and only one would need to lie down at a time.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.               

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor
To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.