From: delliott@tomah.com
Date: Tue, 17 Jun 2003 05:41:14 -0500
Subject: Re: Odd Paradox control problem
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

Hello Al,

If you fall into irons or fail a tack you can do as Bill suggests and that will put you right. There is nothing at all the matter with Paradox lateral plane or rudder size, and I would suggest the following.

1.Make sure you bring the craft to a close hauled position before attempting a tack, meaning don't attempt a tack from a close reaching heading, it simple won't work. Concentrate on your sailing in hard to tack situations. Tack on the crests of waves and at of the strongest winds, not in the troughs or lulls. This is the most common failure for most when failing a tack.

2.The rudder is large and has great power, however do not stall it by putting it hard over (Too quickly or over too far), get a feel for its best control. It should be a steady, constant turn of rudder blade by the tiller arm (No more than 15 degrees one way), feel its grip on the water.

3. As designed Paradox has a uphaul line to raise the blade, it should also have a downhaul (For ease of operation and safety), check to see it is lowering fully when released. The forward edge of the blade should be in a vertical position when fully down.

4.If the rudder bolt hole is not drilled exactly perpendicular to its surface in the blade and housing it will be slow to lower or stick during operation, however the blade should not be slack in its case.

5.A poorly shaped blade will not perform at all or maneuver the craft as it should. (If you need a rudder blade shape let me know)

6.The main halyard much be attached at the yard so a portion of the sail is ahead of the mast.

7.If the winds are extremely light use a paddle to bring it about, remember it is a heavy craft and do not expect it to handle like a racing dinghy.

Mainly handle the craft with attention when tacking and you should have no problem whatsoever, focus at all times during critical tacks on any craft. Re-check everything and try again and let us know what happens.

Don