From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 19 Jun 2003 15:36:58 -0000
Subject: Re: LED array navigation lights?

Hey David, why don't you exercise your finger and just delete the
cross-posted copies? Then again, you could simply change your
preferences in favor of the daily digest(s). Chill, dude.

Anyone trying to use kerosene running lights is just plain nuts!
That's probably one of the many reasons why Susan asked about LEDs.
Kerosene is hellishly expensive when used for this application and
causes far more problems than most folks would be willing to
withstand. Aboard a small boat, safety concerns would be the chief set
of problems. A kerosene anchor light is technically illegal unless it
is hoisted to the masthead (above, actually). I have been confronted
by Coasties and cops on numerous occasions on this very issue. Yeah, I
know what the Pardeys have written... they're wrong.

LEDs are incredibly cheap when viewed as a package solution. They
require a minuscule amount of power, which can be supplied by small
gauge wiring (cheap), a small battery (cheap), and recharged by a
small solar panel (cheap). An LED will last for something on the order
of 10,000 hours; far longer than a kerosene running lamp, unless it is
kept in its proper place, as bookends on the mantle. An LED won't soot
up sails, deck, or chimney.

I don't recall having read that Susan wanted to use LED running lights
in lieu of a proper lookout. 

Susan, if you don't want to go to the trouble of building your own LED
arrays, you can go to Defender Industries, West Marine, etc... and
purchase some Hella LED nav lights, which are USCG approved. Also,
while there, you can find LED arrays to use within conventional nav
lights. I've had poor results in performance and longevity, from the
dry cell dinghy lights. What type of dry cells do you have in mind to
use as your power source?

Are you building an example of Paradox? Technically speaking, an all
around white light at the masthead will satisfy the requirements for
both running and anchor lights, unless you intend to use an outboard
motor.

DC