From: "amgraham2001" <amgraham2001@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Aussie Paradox dry run
Date: Sat, 21 Jun 2003 01:35:04 -0000 

Hi all,

I have just uploaded a couple of photos to "Aussie Paradox" of my test fit of the sides. I screwed ply spring clips to the bottom and deck of the frames to give an initial hold on the sides. The frame is first hung from the sides by the deck clip (strong to take the weight) and the sides are then pulled in at the chine to be retained by the bottom clip (springy). Two roofing screws through ply pads are used per side to pull the sides flush with the frame. The holes created by the various screws will be drilled and filled with epoxied splined wood dowels later.

None of the frames require any further beveling. The sides were held in at the stem by ropes around two pieces of wood fixed to sides at the sheer and chine whch projected above and below the sheer and chine - see photo. A further ply pad was screwed to the sides at the stem (deck level) to provide a point for a clamp to grip. This brought the nose in close while I did the final beveling of the stem.

In my first post I outlined my changes to the scantlings which simplify construction for me. I have since added 40mm x 25mm sawn ply deck beams to fwd face frame 2 and aft face frame 4 (from original 25mm sheet that all frames were cut from). This adds a little strength to already strong frames and creates 50mm top of frames where I intend to scarf join in place the 9mm deck ply. I am eliminating all laminated deck beams by using three 42 x 19 longditudinal deck beams between frames 1 &amp; 2 and frame 4 and transom. My transom baffle is laminated from 2 x 4mm ply as the 6mm piece I bought was too stiff for the curve I drew. Thats the progress for now - still lots to do before I can glue it all together. I'm not at all worried about any slight extra weight resulting from my changes as everything looks right to my eye.

Thank you all for the welcome and thanks Alastair for your advice - the aft bins will remove easily and I dont plan on installing the water tanks in the initial build (only the partitions). It looks to me that the aft half of the tanks would be the best place for the ballast anyway.

Welcome to our plastic Paradox builder and others who have just joined the site.

Thank you,

Andrew