From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 07 Jul 2003 19:38:10 -0000
Subject: Re: Paradox offshore

Hi Blake. 

I personally believe that prudent seamanship is of far more importance than the somewhat nebulous term, "seaworthiness".

Seaworthiness seems to be a term to be assigned a vessel in hindsight, but then so are the most impressive acts of seamanship. A seamanlike attitude governs what we, as individuals judge to be "seaworthy". That seamanlike attitude is (or should be) gained with personal experience. 

When I read that someone could "improve" upon the Paradox design, I really just have to laugh. Mr. Layden has created a masterful design in Paradox. The design has evolved through many years of personal experimentation of a particular type, by the designer. I've spent my entire life building, sailing, and on a few occasions, designing boats. Seldom has a single design struck so profound a chord with me as has the Paradox design. 

My personal experience allows me to feel comfortable with the notion of coastal cruising aboard this design, provided the boat was built by myself. I see no reason why the boat as designed would not be capable of transoceanic voyages at the hand of an experienced sailor. As I have not yet sailed the design, let alone complete my own boat, I will reserve any personal bravado on the matter of blue water capabilities until such time as I feel I have gained enough experience aboard the boat.

Risk is as different from one person to another as is the idea of the perfect boat. In my view, dragging a foot on the beach is more of a risk to one's safety than is the sea room afforded by being 75 miles out. I'm generally more comfortable when I'm away from other recreational craft, commercial shipping, fishing, shoals, land influenced weather. This comfort allows me sleep with less worry. I have found that anxiety induced fatigue is my worst enemy.

One thing is for sure: the risk of building a boat poorly has no upside potential.

DC