From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: materials
Date: Wed, 09 Jul 2003 18:39:21 -0000


Hi all. 

I've been researching materials for my project. I guess as a matter of regional pride and respect, I've been revisiting local suppliers of products and solutions.

System Three epoxy has somehow never taken hold of my favor. West System has always performed perfectly, though at a price premium. I've used System Three's "Quick Cure" as an occasional interior trim solution, but for some reason, I've seldom used their regular products. On the few occasions that I have used regular System Three, I've found the epoxy to perform well, though the cured epoxy seems a bit more flexible than West's (likely due to the hardener/resin ratio). At any rate, I think I shall try out System Three's epoxy for the remainder of my boat. They seem to have quite a good product selection and the prices are decent. Wish they had a secure order page.
http://www.systemthree.com/index.html

There are certainly a lot of solutions out there for nonskid. Sand (by whatever name) in paint is easy, but needs frequent overcoating to look it's best. I'm not too crazy about the effectiveness of this route. When the time comes to remove the sand (by whatever name), incredible frustration is met. I like Glen's solution of walnut shells in epoxy, and then overpainted. I expect that grinding the top off of the shells produces a comfortable surface. 

After having installed many nonskid surfaces on both pleasure and commercial boats, I found myself thrilled with what was then "Flex-o-Tex" or "Dex-o-Tex". I ended up using it on my last boat. It required no maintenence in eight years, ice to desert. 

The name has changed to "Spantex", but is the same product. It is essentially a latex rubber base, with chunks of Hypalon rubber for the nonskid. The "base coat" has the chunks. The "finish coat" provides the color of choice. Prep is easy: remove any paint/varnish, scratch the surface like hell with 24 grit. Squeegee the "Roll Tex" so that the Hypalon chunks are evenly distributed. I've used a couple of successive coats of the "base". After the "base" has dried completely, the "Color Coat" is applied with a roller. That's it. If the color needs refreshing at any time, clean with TSP and a scrub brush, then recoat with the "Color Coat". Very easy, effective, long lasting, and comfortable. I've applied the stuff over fiberglass, bare plywood, planked decks, and concrete, all in various conditions.
http://www.spantexusa.com/sub7.html

DC