From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Jul 2003 07:10:43 -0400
Subject: Re: LOOKS LIKE I FOUND MY FUTURE BOAT..... :) :)

Welcome aboard Duane!

Tailwinds

Glen

Hi everyone,

Looks like, after 4 months of scouring the net, magazines, etc... 
I have finally found the boat I will be starting to build! 
I have literally driven myself crazy this past few months trying to decide on one, 
but looks like I found it. 

I stumbled onto David and Mindy's site, literally by accident just yesterday. 
The smiles on theirs and everyone else's seem to tell the story. 
Prompt, friendly emails from both them and from Don about the building series info, 
further add to my suspicions that this must really be a neat little boat with a loyal following. 
Just what I want. 

I had almost picked a Glenn-L design but then was leaning to a long micro. 
But I fell for this Paradox boat head over keels. 
I am a simple person when it comes to transportation of any kind. 
To me, this looks like the perfect boat to achieve my little dreams. 
To me, the people I plan on meeting on the "other side" is the real reason for going in the first place. 
Getting there is just part of the fun. 
And this boat looks simple, economical enough, easy to transport, store, work on, pull out, etc. 
But yet, people look to love it. 
In the meantime, one of those usually doesn't go with the other. 

This will be my first boat-building experience although I consider myself really handy with good common sense. 
So, I don't anticipate too much trouble with the building experience which I plan to attack with a vengeance. 
I am not, however, arrogant to the fact that occasionally, I am going to have questions that arise, 
or things that I could benefit from from fellow builders both building and completed. 
This was one of the things I insisted on from all the potential designs I was looking at; 
one with at least some kind of builders group, thread, etc. 
And low and behold, the Paradox seems to have that. 
I have a sneaking suspicion that if a question or building "scratch-head" happens to come my way, 
that a possible answer or help will be quick in the making. 
Needless to say, looks like this design has a good little "brotherhood" going.

Anyway, David, Mindy, and Don, my cash is on the way. 
Thanks for your prompt communication.

Keywestdale, landlocked in Tennessee for about 8 more months, 
but hope to have me a little boat to trailer back to the Sunshine State with me! 

Duane


To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to: 
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com 

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.