From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Bottom Paint ??
Date: Sun, 13 Jul 2003 21:32:55 -0000

Hi David.

With all due respect, what is wrong with antifouling? What drives you
to seek an alternative? Cost? Environmental concerns? 

I've seen a whole lot of mistakes. A guy approached me once for my
opinion regarding latex paint below the waterline; something he read
in a book to remain nameless.

I've encountered a lot of sportfishermen who advocate only "A THICK
COAT OF WAX". That works fine until the boat is left in the water long
enough for growth to start. Barnacles don't care how wax tastes; they
just spit it out and discover a boat lies underneath (I know, they eat
at the pointy end). I swear to you, barnacle feet are tougher to
remove than a proper antifouling job is to apply.

Enamel does not belong below the waterline; says so on the can. I'm no
chemical engineer, so I must defer to them. Incidently, Awlgrip,
Imron, Sterling, and the other LPUs should not be used below the
waterline either. I've known several cruisers with blisters on their
topsides where the bow wave immersed the paint during ocean crossings.

I've seen some experimental sprayed silicone bottom paint which while
it allowed growth, was very easily cleaned with a dinghy brush. Life
expectancy of many years. The problem was that such a solution must
never be allowed to be scuffed by the bottom or a trailer. Racers use
some burnishable finishes because they offer less friction, but they
require attention between races, and generally must be dry stored.

If you're only going to spend your time in fresh water, and never for
more than a week or so, you could get by with only epoxy or an epoxy
barrier coat. But you want to go to the Bahamas, right? Best to apply
a bottom paint with the worst conditions in mind.

You absolutely won't go wrong with:
1) epoxy barrier coat to the tacky point, to be followed with:
2) vinyl bottom paint to the tacky point, to be followed with:
3) Pettit Trinidad (red contains the most copper), at least two coats.
Three would be best since you will be spending some time scuffing it
off on the sand.

Having said all that, I will be using the method listed above, though
I will most likely use Interlux Micron rather than the Trinidad, as it
is most compatible with the use that I believe my boat will see. That,
and I would like to use the color white (Micron Shark White) or custom
mix of white and green. The color is a personal thing; just
aesthetics. 

In my opinion, any solution below the waterline, which is not
specifically and universally recognized as such, is an example of
false economy. Others are free to disagree... Bottom growth is
literally crippling to a boat. Scraping the bottom with the barbecue
spatula is not my idea of fun.

At any rate, congratulations on what sounds like the conclusion to
your refit. 

DC