From: DUANE HALL <keywestdale@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: PLANS IN HAND !!!!
Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 00:12:27 -0000

Hi everyone,

First off, thanks again to all the great people thus far surrounding this boat called paradox. Everyone is beyond professional in the attitude, promptness, and enthusiasm shown thus far. It has to be a great boat to have such a loyal helpful group of people surrounding it.

At any rate, I got the plans today and have sent off for the 16-part series from Don. That should be here anytime. Don, if you have not received payment yet, please let me know. The snail mail is not 100 percent! 

Going to spend a few weeks just studying plans, reading tools, building spots, etc. I plan to make unhurried progress yet steady progress because luckily I have time to do so at this time in my life. So a couple of weeks from now, there should be some paradox blood hitting the floor (sawdust). If there's anything right off the bat, I should watch for, tricks, tips, etc, I would greatly appreciate it. Again, I consider myself handy in the building department, have worked with all tools involved, with a little epoxy experience, etc., but I am wise to the fact that having been there once before (previous builder), is usually invaluable experience. 

Thanks in advance to everyone; again, it's greatly appreciated. I also plan to document my project very closely with text, pics, notes, etc. I am not doing this because it's in my nature. I am not a meticulous person compared to some websites I have seen out there where people have a website devoted to practically anything going on in their current life, etc. Nevertheless, I plan on at least taking a lot of construction pics to at least be able to maybe help future builders. I feel this is the least thing I could do here as everyone involved thus far has been great. Just would like to return favor, etc. And what better place to do this from the start. If indeed, I end up loving this boat and its adventures even half as much as I think I am, it will be worth it to possibly help someone else down the road, etc.

At any rate, here's my first question to ponder on. And I know this has pros and cons, but it's simply AC exterior plywood, versus marine ply. If this was a cold-molded boat with more complex curves, I would not even ask this question. I would just go with marine, period. However, with all the basically flat sides here and there, has anyone had any real trouble with the abscesses in the exterior ply, providing they are not in a spot that gets bent much, etc.? 

Financially, I know it would not take much more to go all marine, and I would not care to do so, as again, there are not that many sheets to have to buy, but having said that, if those people that have used exterior with no problems have basically not had any problems, then I would be crazy not to use it. Simply because I am luckily in a position to obtain all the plywood, wood, etc. new, basically for free. That too good to pass up, as long as it's okay. I don't mind buying what I have to, don't get me wrong, just would like to know how many, if any, have regretted possibly going with exterior, versus marine ply, etc.

Thanks for your time in reading this. If anyone close by me in middle Tennessee, say within a six to 8-hour drive has a paradox, they might not mind showing me, etc., please let me know. I would appreciate it. If there's anyone semi-close building, even better. Thanks again.

Duane Hall

P.S. Look David, no cap lock stuck! I must have bionic eyes; I never notice when I do that!