From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: PLANS IN HAND !!!!
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 19:49:11 -0500

Hello Duane, your 'Building Paradox series' has already been mailed to you, (air mailed), so you should have it very soon. Let me know if you have any questions.

A few things....
Make certain, if you do decide to use exterior, Do not to use the white pine ply, use a good quality douglas fir ply (Boise Cascade is reliable) and you should not have a problem, (it has the same glue as marine grade). 

Marine is far better if you can afford it (nice to work with), however, the bottom don't need to be marine, but it sure would be great for the side hull panels.

For the deck don't use any ply with thin outer layers. Just some thoughts. Good luck and keep us posted. Don


To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
From: DUANE HALL 
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] PLANS IN HAND !!!!
Date: Wednesday, July 16, 2003 7:12 PM

Hi everyone, first off, thanks again, to all the great people thus far surrounding this boat called paradox, everyone is beyond professional in the attitude, promtness, and enthusiasm shown thus far, it has to be a great boat, to have such a loyal helpfull group of people surrounding it.....at any rate, I got the plans today, have sent off for the 16 part series from don, that should be here anytime, don, if you have not got payment yet, please let me know, the snail mail is not 100 percent !!!!........going to spend a few weeks, just studying plans, reading tools, building spot, etc.....I plan to make unhurried progress, yet steady progress, cause, I luckily have to time to do so at this time in my life......so a couple of weeks from now, there should be some paradox blood hitting the floor..(sawdust).......if theres anything right off the bat, i should watch for, tricks, tips, etc,,,,I would greatly appreciate it, again,I consider my self handy in  the building dept....have worked with all tools involved, with a little epoxy expericence, etc, but I am wise to the fact, that having been there once before(previous builder), is usually invaluable experience.....so thanks in advance to everyone, again, its greatly appreciated.......I also plan to document my project very closely indeed, with text, pics, notes, etc...I am not doing this, cuause its in my nature, I am not a meticulous person, as compared to some websites I have seen out there, where people have a website devoted to practically anything going on in their current life, etc,,,,,,never the less, I plan on at least taking a lot of construction pics, to at least be able to maybe help future builders, I feel this is the least thing I could do here, as everyone involved thus far, has been great, just would like to return favor,etc.....and what better place to do this from the start, if I indeed end up loving this boat and its adventures even half as much as i think i am , it will be worth it, to possibly help some one else down the road,etc...........at any rate, heres my first question to ponder on........and i know this has pros and cons.....but its simply  ac exterior plywood, verses marine ply......if this was a cold molded boat,with more complex curves, I would not even ask this question, I would just go with marine, period,....however, with all the basically flat sides here and there, has any one had any real trouble with the absesses in the exterior ply, providing they are not in a spot that gets bent much, etc........financially, I know, it would not take much more to go all marine, and i would not care to do so, as again, theres not that many sheets to have to buy, but having said that, if those people, that have used exterior with no problems, have basically, not had any problems, then i would be crazy not to use it, simply because I am luckily in a position, to obtain all the plywood, wood, etc, new, basically for free....that too good to pass up, as long as its ok, I dont mind buying what i have too, dont get me wrong, just would like to know, how many, if any, have regretted possibly going with exterrior, verses marine ply, etc.........................thanks for your time in reading this,,,,,,,,,,,,if anyone close by me, middle tennessee, say with in a six to 8 hour drive has a paradox, they might not mind showing me, etc,,,,,please let me know........I would appreciate it, if their anyone semi close building, even better.............thanks again.................duane hall.............p.s.  look david, no cap lock stuck !!!!...........i must have bionic eyes, i never notice when i do that !!!!.........................


Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.