From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: "Paradox Builders" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Bottom Paint
Date: Tue, 10 Jul 2001 20:48:02 -0400


Bottom Painting

It has been my experience that when attempting to put anti fouling paint on an epoxy covered surface a degrading of the bond develops over time and large sections of the paint will flake off the substrate.

While working at Gold Coast Yachts, whose product was primarily large (53') charter catamarans built from wood and epoxy, we had to replace the antifouling under warranty on more then a couple of our boats. This was a pretty expensive problem and we endeavored to correct it as best we could. After trying several sealers and following all manufactures recommendations to no avail we hit upon a solution thru trial and error. We found that if we put the first coat of bottom paint on just as the last layer of epoxy clear coat was tacking off a chemical bond of some sort formed between the epoxy and anti fouling and it was near impossible to remove all the bottom paint without cutting into the epoxy. Afterwards the bottom paint would adhere well to itself and our problems went away (only to be replaced by others, of course).

During the curing process of the epoxy, which takes place more slowly then the paint, some alligatoring of the paint may take place and leave small cracks in the paint surface but this never seemed to make any difference to the following paint bond. And the cracks were not detectable if a thin first coat was applied. The best time to apply the bottom paint seems to be just as the epoxy becomes tack free to a light touch. The best results follow the application of the paint with a close nap foam roller (like the WEST yellow ones) using light pressure. This will keep the alligatoring to a minimum. Finally, do not apply subsequent coats of bottom paint until the epoxy has had time to cure, usually over night.

I have been using this process with success now for about 10 years and as I was applying the bottom paint to my Paradox I thought I would pass it on.

Tailwinds Glen