From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 18:33:35 +0000
Subject: Re: Shim deckbeam #1?

It could well be that I had a similar problem, but I had to fill so many gaps (due to grotty workmanship) that I didn't notice that one especially.


From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 19 Aug 2003 04:54:27 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Shim deckbeam #1?
Send reply to: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com


I've got my boat dry fit. The stem is great, but took lots of whittling to arrive at a good compound shape, fairing into the bulkheads. Everything is screwed together so that I could remove the clamps to cast my critical eye. My deck beams are looking a bit wonky. Blkd #1 is considerably below fair at the centerline. Everything else works out fine, just this issue with the deck beams. I suspect that the intermediate deck beam, aft of #1 will need shimming too. 


Now, before before anyone offers up the obvious... I laminated all of the deck beams on the same jig. After the deckbeams had sufficient cure time, they were removed and put aside for a few months. When it came time to mate the beams with their respective bulkheads, I recut the springback on the beams, using an accurate template. I even kept the fwd side of the template aligned with the fwd side of each beam and bulkhead even though the template was a mirror image. The hull sides are mirror images too, and believed to be accurate. My work is always careful, but I am capable of mistakes, like everyone else. I don't think that I have screwed the proverbial pooch on this one, but it is possible.


I went to the ever valuable files/photos sections and looked at everyone's examples. When I got to Hugh's New Zealand Paradox file, I found evidence of a similar deck beam problem. Hugh has shimmed both #1, and the next aft deck beam, which is an intermediate. AH HA! 


Anyone else encounter this situation?


To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com


Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.