From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Aussie Paradox update
Date: Sat, 23 Aug 2003 08:08:39 -0400


Great post Andrew, thanks for the new pictures, looks like she is coming right along.

Tailwinds

Glen


Hi all

I've posted new photos under Aussie Paradox including a test fit 
sleeping 2 up.

A few construction notes

Frames 
See my previous posts for a description of the solid 25mm ply frames 
and transom.

Chine logs & Sheer clamps
I used 19mm Meranti  - 2 laminations for chine, single for sheer all 
cut to same dimensions 17deg and 40 mm face.  The bevels were cut 
with a 184mm handheld circular saw run against a homemade 1800 long 
stationary fence - I dont have a tablesaw and knew I couldnt cut 
accurately with the standard saw fence.  The pieces were difficult
for one person to bend and twist into location and to get the exact 
length right.  A couple of very short pieces of stock had to be 
knocked in at the transom to make up the length. The size stock I 
used is the maximum size I would recommend for dry meranti.

Sides 
After glueing in the chine logs an sheer clamp I found the sides 
could still be flexed a little so I decided to laminate an extra 4mm 
thickness of ply on the sides (4mm chosen as the maximum my hand 
stapler would go through).  Hundred of staples were used to hold
the outer ply on while the resin set.  They were removed a few hours 
after glueing and the tiny holes will be filled before glassing.  The 
scarf joins are nicely covered and no fastenings show through.  My 
12mm was 5ply CC Hoop Exterior and the 4mm is AC Kauri Exterior, both 
to Australian standard 2271 

Chine runners
I laminated the chine runners in place from three plys of 19mm 
stock.   I just used a constant bevel along the entire length and 
planed the ends fair into the sides.  They look very fair to me and I 
have no doubt they will act as effective end plates channeling water
along the heeled sides.  They are pretty close to the plans in 
projection from the chine.

Bottom
I wasnt brave enough to try bending 18mm ply so I gave the bottom the 
same treatment as the sides.  The 16mm bottom felt stiff enough 
before glassing.  Both 12mm (7ply) and 4mm are AC exterior Kauri 
which is stiffer than the Hoop used in the sides.  I used a single 
layer of biaxial glass which had CSM stiched to one side and was 
1270mm wide and about 880 gm per square metre total.  Im no 
glassfibre expert but I think this kind of cloth is brilliant 
stuff.   The resultant layup is 2 - 2.5mm.  I added a lot of aluminium
powder to the final coats of epoxy.  Glassing the bottom drank about  
6 kg of epoxy and I guess a similar amount was used to glue the 4mm 
ply to the sides and bottom.  I'm still figuring how and where I
will 
install a ground plate as I dont want to drill any holes in
the bottom.  I was able to turn the hull alone but let it drop safely 
onto a thick mattress.

Vent trunk 
I made the sides and aft face from 12mm ply (doubled at the top of 
the aft face).  Double ply webs extend either side of the aft face 
and very stiffly support the carlins and cabin front.  I made the 
starboard side in two parts with the top glued permanently and the
bottom (below baffle) removable for access.

Interior panels
Forward - the forward bin sides are located by cheap nylon door clips 
which shouldnt be able to move when the sole is locked down.

Mid- I splayed my tank framing slightly towards frame 3 to provide 
better support for 3 floor panels which run perpendicular to the 
framing.  Mid bins omitted for more sleeping area and space for crew 
when sailing.  A short fixed front panel is used to hinge a mid
panel which pivots up to just below the cleat pad and can be held 
open by a swing tab behind the pad. Two turn buttons on fixed back 
panel lock the mid panel down.  This panel will be firmly screwed 
down to hold ballast  in place. 

Aft - floor bins same as plans attach to side bins which slot in to 
framing and are adequately retained by nylon door clips - I've 
drilled one hole at each frame for retaining screws but dont think 
they will be required.  My seat supports are padded out 4mm to
hopefully avoid scratches on the side bin paint.  My seat is 400 wide 
concave section of 3 laminations of 6mm ply.  It is very stiff and 
will be much more comfortable than the 10 inch plank in  the plans.  

The seat stows in a 25mm gap between my open frame 4 and a removable 
table located under the rudder (screwed to three floor stringers).  
With the seat stowed the berth is 1925mm plus toe room both sides of 
the vent trunk (from my two up test toe room greatly improves 
comfort). The table is low to allow cooking at anchor using a cheap 
low profile butane table top cooker.  Fiddles on the table allow
30litre airtight drums to be tied down securely and used for 
lightweight stowage and backup buoyancy.  Standard plastic hand 
basins fit snugly under the table and there isuseful accessable  
space behind.  The table will be very useful for food preparation and 
wine glasses (drums moved forward).

Interior finish
I've tried not to sand too much epoxy off the insides so a few 
drips have been left on the bottom.  I'm going to use a quality 
builders oil based undercoat and gloss topcoat over all surfaces including 
below the waterline - I think painted epoxy will be much slower to 
deteriorate even on surfaces which dont receive much UV. 

I couldnt bear the thought of using a crumbley polyeurethane foam or 
polystyrene for insulation or buoyancy  so I am trying another 
builders product - a flexible and compressable closed cell 
polyethylene foam normally used as an expansion joint and moisture 
barrier in brick walls.  The trade name is Abelflex by Davco and it 
is supposed to be quite durable and compatable with all sealant 
types.   It comes in 10mm thick rolls with smooth skin of various 
widths.  I am using 2 x 25metre rolls - 250mm and 300mm wide so should
have little wastage.  This will leave me well insulated but a little 
short on buoyancy.  

Rudder blade - I laminated a 250 x 100 x 10 rectangle of used lead 
roof flashing into the bottom of the blade instead of casting the 
lead ballast.  I started out measuring the profile but then just 
decided to fair the blade by eye.  The transition between  the 
symetric part below the stock and the assymetric part which fairs 
into the stock is neat.  I made the blade only 900mm overall.

Rudder stock - a measuring cock up (by me - no one else to blame) 
resulted in the bottom pintle being 20mm too far back in the stock.  
I had to extend the lower gudgeon and make a pad to mount the top 
transom gudgeon.  It all fits now but I may have to change
the pivot point if the rudder turns out to be overbalanced.

I could go on but you will have to wait for more

Happy building and sailing 

Andrew


Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
ADVERTISEMENT

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.509 / Virus Database: 306 - Release Date: 8/14/2003