From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 09 Sep 2003 21:37:46 -0000
Subject: Robust constuction

All due respect to those of you who have decided to experiment with other construction techniques, the Paradox design as drawn, is quite robust.

I have been building boats all of my professional life. I'm agreable to darn near all correctly applied techniques and materials; I can't really say that one method is generally any "better" than another. The engineering of materials applications with respect to boat building is really a cool science, but it ain't boat building.

The Paradox design is quite well suited for the materials and techniques specified. I can't believe that there are some folks out there who think that "strengthening" the already bulletproof design specs could possibly be necessary. Get real folks.

Plywood is pretty darn cheap. I spent $766 on all the Okoume 1088 marine ply that I will need to build my boat. Marine fir ply would be quite a bit less expensive, and exterior fir ply, even more so. Any of these choices will produce a tremendously strong boat, certainly stronger than the mind or body of the unfortunate sailor deciding to test the boat to failure. Properly maintained, a well built plywood boat could well be passed to your heirs, and to their's as well.

I've got nothing against Sven's designs. They are proven, if perhaps unattractive. Some have said the same of Paradox. Both share innovative ideas, and are successful on their own rights.

I ask it yet again... how strong is too strong? WELL? At what price?

I'm reminded of a story I read years ago about a successful designer and builder of A-class catamarans. He was building his boats with foam core glass and epoxy, with specific carbon reinforcements where he thought it necessary. His boats were generally successful. Asked why he didn't switch to foam cored carbon and kevlar like his competitors, he replied that his boats were winning without incurring damage, and doing so without the need for ballast to bring the boat to class weight specs. The matter of cost was an issue too. Why spend the money to build a lighter/stronger boat, only to have to throw a lead pig in each hull?

Picture design displacement as a parameter such as a class minimum weight requirement.

Is there something lacking in the design scantlings of Paradox? I say NO WAY!

For what it's worth, my as-specified sheer clamps and (single piece) chine logs went in without too much trouble. Stem to stern with the clamps, stern to stem with the logs, lots of clamps and time. A deadblow mallet is handy. I've seen larger chine logs on powerboats twice her size.

DC