From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Robust constuction
Date: Wed, 10 Sep 2003 00:13:34 -0000

David, I certainly don't mind questions at all. I realize that your situation with Whisper is different than having built the boat yourself. To be sure, your situation is also enviable; you get to see just how well an "underbuilt" version performs. You have the benefit of practical experience with a boat built to lighter scantlings. This gives you many advantages going forward.

How strong is too strong? Provided that your original hull sides were in decent shape, and that you didn't introduce any voids when you added another 1/4" ply thickness, I believe that your hull sides are stronger than designed. If 6oz cloth provides adequate abrasion resistance, but (2) layers provides more, why not just put down (5) layers, or even substitute with a couple layers of 18 oz? Add to that, a layer or three of Kevlar to the interior hull surfaces. Put a full shoe of stainless steel on the bottom to protect against hard groundings and containers.

See, it starts getting rediculous really fast. At what cost does an increase of strength impose? I know that Whisper presents some challenges, to which you have risen. You are to be commended for that. 

For anyone considering new construction though, please, for your own good, consider sticking with the design specifications. They are quite substantial, and well proven.

Quite a while ago, someone asked whether the Paradox design would lend itself well to aluminium construction. Fundamentally, the design does. I happen to love insulated aluminium construction. The truth of the matter though, is that this design specifies plywood. If I were to build another boat to these lines and do so in aluminium, I could no longer in good conscience, refer to it as a Paradox. Of course, if I were to commission Mr. Layden to modify HIS design for aluminium, and he agreed, THEN I could refer to the boat as a Paradox (Mk2, alloy, metal, whatever).

Some folks around here "improve" Jaguar cars by shoveling in a small block Chevy. Well, it's not a Chevy now, and it's no longer a Jaguar. I can't say as I would ever buy one of these cars, though I really like small block Chevys, and Jags are cool too. Evidently, others agree with this point of view as the resale values (what the market will bear) are akin to those of old Chevys. All that hard work, with no appreciable gain. That's called waste.

DC