From: Glen Maxwell <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Robust constuction
Date: Tue, 9 Sep 2003 21:48:09 -0400

I agree completely DC, I think it was Al that once said "Why make a sows ear out of a silk purse?" in response to some one wanting to improve the Paradox design. As I see it the people who have been out there sailing around really appreciate the design effort that went into the Paradox and the arm chair sailors are trying to find a better way to build the mouse trap.

As regards the how strong is too strong, I will never forget the time I was racing with Roger Hatfield (Gold Coast Yachts Designer) aboard his "Hatter" in the around St. Croix Race. Hatter is a GCY 34 tri weighing in at 1900 lbs and we were trying to break Roger's record of 5 Hrs 25 min (An 80 mile as the crow flies course with about 36 miles of beating, 4 miles of reaching and 36 miles of running) we were running under spinnaker on the down wind side in 20kt winds and got a good gust that took us up to about 23kts indicated. As soon as the gust was over we were going faster than the wind and the spinnaker backwinded into the mast. within a second the wind was again from behind and filled the chute with such force I thought it would take the rig out of the boat but off we went again at 20 kts only to have it happen again in about 15 min. I was at the helm and after the second time I confided in Roger that such activity was scaring the bejesus out of me and he agreed that maybe we should head up a little to get on a reach. the rest of the downwind leg and the reaching leg across the west end of the Island were uneventful except for the sustainable 20+ kts speeds which I will never get over. The real excitement however came on the up wind leg when we routinely leaped off the tops of waves and dove into the oncoming ones. The incident that will forever be embedded in my mind came when after slamming into such a wave I bore off to get her speed up again and the "Hatter" accelerated so fast (all three of us were out on the amma and could not see the speed-o) that she took the next wave and coming off the top became airborne. I will never forget looking through the nets and seeing about 6 inches of rudder and a couple of feet of daggerboard the only thing still in the water. While only a second or so it seemed like an eternity before we slammed into the next wave with such force I thought the boat would break apart. She shook herself off and again took off as Roger, grinning from ear to ear, said "I built her too heavy!" We went on to win the race in 5 hrs and 30 mins so were not successful in breaking his old record.
 
Tailwinds
Glen