From: "kjellkkk" <gilljam.karlsson@swipnet.se>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Robust construction
Date: Wed, 10 Sep 2003 13:59:05 -0000

oh yes oh yes

I fully agree with all of you. Paradox is an ingenious design and I have no doubt whatsoever that it is robust enough for all purposes, including ocean cruising (even though perhaps the rig would be unpractical). But then again... I guess we who are attracted don't belong to the ordinary boaters. If you are building a Paradox (or BRIS for that part) it's not because you just want to sail. There are lots of cheap off-the-shelf-boats to fulfil that criterion. You have been thinking and have ideas of your own on design, construction, performance and probably not only that but perhaps also "deeper", or at least "wider" considerations on mechanics of materials, meteorology, fluid mechanics or whatever, perhaps even philosophy.

If I may return again to my Swedish guru in the field, Sven Yrvind, he again and again returns in his writings to his crucial point; that he is "searching for the fundamental system which constitutes the basis of how everything works" (or thereabout). Slightly Richardadamsic. Sven is clearly outspoken that boat design, construction and long distance cruising are merely means in this quest. It might sound naive but reflects an attitude that deeply affects me.

I regard both Matt and Sven as free thinkers, science `amateurs' in the word's original sense; someone who does it because he loves it, not because it generates money. Having done some `professional' science myself, I have a great respect for and envy such people. Neither Matt nor Sven claim their designs as intellectual properties, rather they may be regarded as `open sources', to speak computerish. They are not sect leaders, claiming obedience. They show a solution to a problem. If it solves your problem too, fine. Otherwise think for yourself, reject or improve like good positivistic popperians. I happen to know that both of them dislike simple questions; read books, make experiments or discuss it somewhere, e.g., here.

So. To me David's question that started this discussion, on the added strength by an extra layer cloth, is quite relevant. Obviously to him, and it made me think for awhile also. I also consider Bill's answer right. No, you will not gain noticeable stiffness. Yes, it will increase abrasive resistance. Perhaps that's what David wants? That's what I want when earlier describing my plans to add a steel sheet to the bottom. I want to be able to sail right up on a rocky beach. I might add that Sven's latest (last) Bris, now sold, got some 20+ bottom layers.

I also find Andrew's `Aussie' modifications very interesting since he is obviously anxious to get another person on board, like I am.

Phew. I'm not sure anymore against or for whom or what I'm arguing. But somehow I've got the impression from this and the microcruising group that you should pay respect to the designer's oeuvre, not modify. Let's put it this way. I've been an armchair sailor for 20 years now and boatless almost 10. After getting stuck when I was ready with the Bris hull, Paradox came along, almost as a revelation. Yes, of course, this is how you could do it! What a perfect design for Sven's sandwich. My modifications might not work, or will be too strong or too light, or whatever. The boat perhaps never hits the water. It will most certainly be considerably more expensive. But, I am old and well-off enough not to give a damn. As long as I have fun. And learn!

Kjell Karlsson

Oh, btw. I am thinking of excluding the lead in the rudder. Do you think a bungee chord from somewhere on the tiller down to the front edge of the rudder might do the job? It would also help pulling the rudder to the upright position after passing a critical angle. It might also decrease the impact on the rudder when hitting rocks. Hmm...