From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Robust constuction
Date: Thu, 11 Sep 2003 09:07:38 -0000

Hi Kjell.

I love to sail. That is specifically why I decided to go with this
design. To you and perhaps many others, building a boat may be a
spiritual or philosophical journey. Believe me, I'm not knocking
that.   

I object flatly to the notion that the Paradox design could benefit
from the tampering of anyone other than Matt Layden. Like it or not,
it is Mr. Layden's work. It is what it is. The fact that you consider
the Paradox design an open source body of work, to be whimsically
altered, doesn't detract from the brilliant design... it just gives
you a different boat.

Picture the Folkboat. The design is truly a successful one. Fast,
weatherly, simple. Then along comes this guy who decides that he wants
to build his own Folkboats in 'glass. The class association went wild.
 The fact that the guy was one of the original Danish builders and
that he would produce a boat which compared similarly to the woodies
finally won the class association over (not to mention the fact that
the original woodies were going away). The boat was a success. She
weighed within the class parameters, and she was geomtrically
identical. Still, she is not a true Folkboat. Then came the Marieholm
boat, also inspired by the original. The Marieholms were damn fine
boats too, though they had "improved" rigs and sometimes even a diesel
auxiliary. Then came the Contessas. 

Can it be said that Tania Aebi circumnavigated aboard a Folkboat?

If you want to vary from the plans, that's fine with me really. My
goal is to build a boat representative of the design. But when anyone
starts mumbling about changing the design for the "better",
"stronger", "more flexible", I will challenge the notion. It's sort of
like someone complaining about their Westsail 32' being too lightly
constructed. 

The design is what it is. You can't improve it, you can only change
it.

Have fun.

DC