From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Robust constuction
Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2003 13:07:07 -0400

Thanks for sharing your thoughts Matt.

Tailwinds

Glen

  Since Paradox's scantlings seem to be an ongoing topic here, I 
  thought I'd give my reasoning on the matter.

  The plywood specs are for cheap hem-fir not only because it is 
  inexpensive, but chiefly because it is a renewable resource made from 
  fast growing farm trees.  As such it is pretty lousy looking stuff, 
  uneven and knotty.  But it is also fairly low density, so you can use 
  a thicker panel without weight penalty.  3/8", 3-ply hem-fir tends to 
  be the worst and I try not to use it below the waterline, hence the 
  1/2" sides.

  If people want to use 'better' materials (generally meaning 
  irreplaceable old-growth tropical hardwood) it won't hurt my feelings 
  if they take 1/8" (3mm) off the side planking, but I don't see it as 
  an improvement except to the bottom line.  You will save about 20 lbs 
  which is a lot for a canoe or racing dinghy, but is minor in the 
  context of a 1400 lb, 5-knot cruiser.  The plywood will be 'easier' 
  to bend around the frames during setup, which is to say it will be so 
  limber that extra temporary bracing may be needed to keep the hull in 
  shape until the bottom is on.  I don't see that any appreciable time 
  or effort will be saved; you still need to lay out, cut out, dress 
  off, install and finish the parts, no matter how thick or thin they 
  are.

  Paradox is 10 years old and has lived 2/3 of that time afloat, the 
  rest ashore in the open in the Florida sun & rain.  Topsides and 
  decks have been repainted twice in that time, bottom once, interior 
  partially once, other than that maintenance has been minimal.  She is 
  in perfect shape barring some scratched paint.  I have to say I'd be 
  glad if she were made of more rot-resistant plywood, but she's not 
  and she's doing fine.

  As for cored composite, aluminum, steel, thermoplastic sheet, 
  whatever your personal preference of material; sure, do the research, 
  work out your scantlings or pay an expert to do so, and go for it.  
  The boat was designed to be built quickly and economically from sheet 
  materials, and any of the above or others will work decently if 
  intelligently engineered.  But I doubt any of them will produce a 
  better mix of economy, ease of construction, ease/cost of maintenance 
  & sailing performance, interior comfort and life-cycle 
  environmental impact than good old 20th century plywood.

  Just my opinion.

  Matt



        Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
       
       

  To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
  paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com


  Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 


  ---
  Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
  Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
  Version: 6.0.516 / Virus Database: 313 - Release Date: 9/6/2003