From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com, microcruising@yahoogroups.com
Subject: A new world record (long)
Date: Sun, 28 Sep 2003 20:31:42 +0000

Yes!!! It's official!! It's a new world record! The fastest ever crossing from Poole to Cowes in a Paradox! 

Actually it is the only ever crossing from Poole to Cowes in a Paradox and it happened last week (22nd - 26th Sep '03).

I had been wanting to make the trip for some time, and suddenly work and home life meshed and I had a week with no pressing appointments, so I packed up and set off. The plan was to launch into Poole Harbour and sail across to the Solent (about 15 miles of open water), visit some of the harbours and anchorages and have a leisurely wander back. One of the primary objectives was to visit Ryde harbour and meet Jeff so that he could see Little Jim before he builds his stretched version.

A map of the area can be seen at: http://www.streetmap.co.uk/newmap.srf?x=418433&amp;y=90480&amp;z=6&amp;sv=418433,90480&amp;st=4&amp;mapp=newmap.srf&amp;searchp=newsearch.srf (make sure it is all one line)

The launch on Sunday 22nd was uneventful and I spent a comfortable night anchored near the entrance so as to have an early start in the morning. As it turned out this trip was characterised by me being too early. As the weather was getting autumnal I had the boat shut right up for the night. I now discovered a disadvantage of putting a window in the hatch - condensation. Just as I was dropping off to sleep I felt it dripping on my head. The solution was to leave the hatch slightly open and wear a woolly hat. Fortunately we had no rain in the night during the entire trip.

The 0500 forecast for Monday was: S-SW F4-5 locally F6 veering NW-N F6 locally F7, later backing NW F4-5, sea state slight to moderate. The F4-5 I was ok with, but the F6 and F7 were getting a bit much, but any north in the wind would mean it was coming off the land so the sea would be calmer (thus the slight to moderate?). Anyway, I trusted the boat so decided to go for it. The tide would be against me (about 0.5kn) across to the Solent, but should have turned by the time we reached the narrows at Hurst Castle and we should have a favourable tide (up to 3kn) the rest of the way. That was the theory anyway ....

My usual practice when sailing in open water is to wear a lifejacket and harness fastened to a hard point on the deck. My feeling is that the harness is more important than the life jacket as it is not much use to be floating safely in your lifejacket as your boat sails out of sight.

With the sail reefed half way we headed for the harbour entrance and out into the bay. Although it was now 8:30 there were few other boats about. The wind was not particularly warm so I went into cocoon mode with the hatch shut. It still surprises me how much the comfort level goes up just by getting out of the wind. As we moved out from the shore the sea got rougher, but they were regular waves (about 5-6ft) and we rode over them easily with just a little spray washing over the deck. At least LJ rode over them easily, at 9:10 I was seas