From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 03 Oct 2003 19:14:51 -0000
Subject: Re: ballast

Hi Jeff.

Thanks for the reply. I agree with you that lead fillers at the chine runners would prevent one from ever lightening the boat. I'm curious though, why would one ever wish to do so? With interior ballast consisting of pigs, I can anticipate the need to remove the pigs for periodic inspection and infrequent maintenance of the surrounding structure, but at all other times, I would want the ballast to remain firmly in place. I can't imagine that the removal of even all of the ballast would be beneficial, even to towing the boat on a trailer. I'm just curious why this is a consideration.

The argument for chine runner fillers of foam or timber is certainly strong. I agree that if one were to go to the trouble of building a plug (for the mold, for the lead casting), it might be just as well to install the plug as filler and then move on. My thought was to build the plug(s) on the bench, utilizing doorskin, hot glue, gussets, and modelers clay. This rather unseaworthy combination of materials would then be used to fashion a mold of plaster, for the subsequent casting of lead.

Certainly, if I could get my wife to accept a brief lesson on rolling bevels and bandsaw operation, I could call out the bevels for her to "roll" on the saw, while I shove the stock through. Using foam, I could probably just use a grinder and grind to marks along the length of the fillers. Thickened epoxy would provide the necessary gap filling requirements.

Yeah, there are a lot of ways to go. The notion that the ballast could be located within the chine runners appeals to me in that it would be so clean. I don't think that rolling (motion) would be much of an issue with the lead so far outboard. Perhaps I am imagining a benefit to the righting moment. It seems to me that when the windward chine begins to surface, the lead ballast would be just where it is most desired, sort of like extreme outboard water ballast. Then again, the amount of weight to which I am referring, can't be that significant. I don't think that I could get more than say 50 pounds of lead (per side) on the chine runners.

Your suggestion of cutting inboard kerfs on a timber filler has merit, but it assumes that the timber filler has already been accurately cut with the two rolling bevels. It might make more sense to just take off the bevels every 100mm and then cut blocks to fit within the marks. Everything gets epoxied, faired, and glassed. Everything is stable, pigs are secured below. Next.

I'm still thinking...

DC