From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Mast construction
Date: Fri, 23 Nov 2001 21:52:44 +0000

Hi All, And Thank you Al & David. In my opinion you would be best off to give the inside of the mast a couple of coats of epoxy in case any moisture should ever get in.

Right, I thought that was probably best

Also in regards to the mast, after all was finished on "Zoe" and I went to stow it in the boat it turned out to be 1 1/2 inch too long because of the anchor light. This is not a big problem because the inspection plate can be left off and some foam wrapped around the light but I had hope to seal everything up by closing the inspection port while stowed for trailering etc. I rechecked the measurements and they were bang on so it would appear that the height of the anchor light was not taken into consideration in the drawings. Needless to say it is a little late to cut the mast down so do take the precaution while building to ensure everything will fit when done.

Good point, that hadn't occurred to me!

I have uploaded some pictures, They are under photos and in the Zoe album, more to follow. David, congrats on scoring the paradox in Fl. Have you come up with a name? If you look closely in the overall view you can see how the axle is longer (note the extended fenders) and mounted on top of the spring. Also note that the spindle is welded to the top of the axle. In the sail trial fit photo, you can see that the bunk boards are mounted right down on the trailer frame. This all allows me to launch in less than two feet of water. Your trailer is the same size as mine only the axle, fender, and bunk board mods need doing to get it to a reasonable height.

Nice pictures, beautiful boat (I hope mine ends up looking half as good). If you are taking more would it be possible to repeat the first one (through the transom port) with someone inside. This would give a much better sense of scale. As it is, it looks enormous, but I know that can't be right.

Hoping for calm nights
Al
Yeovil, England.