From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 13 Nov 2003 21:49:33 -0500
Subject: Re: Introducing Swash

Beautiful workmanship DC, I sure do envy you that quality lumber, it will save you more then you paid for it. Sure wish I'd of gone that route. Thanks for sharing with us and keep em coming.

Tailwinds

Glen


Hi everyone.

I've finally uploaded some photos to the photo album. Thanks Glen, for the help in extricating my head from my butt, regarding photo uploads. 

My boat's name is Swash, which comes from among other things, "the sound of water", "swagger", and the USGS' acronym for "Survey Wide Area SHorelines", which I thought particularly well suited.

I've been a bit lax in my photography lately. I've so far managed to build a giant skateboard after Al's musings about the possibility of using his son's. My cradle is built of 4x4 timbers and 5" swivel casters. Swash's bottom is on and she is right-side up in my garage, while the rain commences for the winter. I've been prepping the interior for foam board, which I hope to begin installing in a week or so. Generally, I've been enjoying the work, and while I am excited to think of launching, I'm not in a hurry.

I've been contemplating the addition of a vent trunk forward of bulkhead #1. I have never been aboard a boat with enough ventilation (well, there were the beach cats). The configuration would be similar in concept to the existing vent trunk, with just a hole in the deck (perhaps with a Beckson access plate), water baffle(s), and a drain with possibly a flapper valve of some sort to keep noise down while the bow is plunging. I think that I could build the trunk sturdy enough to withstand regular filling, while at the same time not incurring excessive weight. So far I'm just at the contemplation stage.

DC

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.538 / Virus Database: 333 - Release Date: 11/12/2003