From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Tools
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 09:42:39 -0600

Hello Al, the lists sound all too familiar, isn't this my list of tools from my "Building Paradox" booklet? The acid brushes, the straw, the epoxy palette, spray bottle for vinegar, and so on, all of it in fact. 

There is a major change to that list, the lead pigs were change from the bread pan shape to, if I recall, square, long forms, these were molded in plywood boxes (See booklet). Maybe 3 x 3 x 12 long, that's a guess, I would have to check on the exact size, but they were melted down and re-poured to a shape like that, (perfectly square and long), see the upcoming ballast articles for that shape. Don  

From: Alastair 
Sent: Saturday, November 15, 2003 9:00 AM
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Tools

The most used power tools were the drill, jig saw and angle grinder.

Here are the tools that I used with some comments added. 

 Acid brushes - for applying epoxy and epoxy putty
          Get cheap brushes from the market. They work out about 
10p each. If you are going to use them again soon wash with 
vinegar and soap, or else throw them away.

Bar Clamps - (2 x 5ft) - for clamping hull sides

Batten - (Flexible) - for drawing fair curves

Bench - (Wooden - Permanent) - for working on

Bread Pans - (9 =BC x 5 =BC x 2 =BE) - for making lead ballast pigs

Bungee Cord - for holding up bar clamps when assembling

Chisels - (Variety) - for shaping and joining

Clamps - (Screw type - long - several) - for temporarily fixing articles
          I have 2 x 3", 4 x 9" and 2 x 15" This was enough, but more 
would be better.

Clamps - spring (large) - for temporarily joining side panels to stem
          Buy a pack of various sizes from the market

Cutter - (Stanley Knife - wide long blades about 6 ins) - for cutting 
fibreglass

Drill - (Battery type with keyless chuck) - for making holes rapidly

Drill Bit - (1 ft 6 ins) - for making vent trunk drain

Drinking Straws - for removing dirt flecks from epoxy surfaces

Electric Lamp - (Portable) - for making things clearly visible

File - (With course teeth - 1/16 inch) for shaping hardened epoxy

Gloves - (Heavy duty) - for protection when casting lead

Gloves - (Rubber) - for working with epoxy

Goggles - for machine sanding and when casting lead

Goop - (Concentrated soap) - for cleaning various items

Hammer - (Light) - for when tacking brads and small nails

Hot Glue Gun - for temporary fixtures

Jigsaw - (Hand - electric) - for cutting shapes from plywood

Lead Pigs - for weights and eventually for fixed ballast

Masks - (Breathing - light paper type) - for preventing dust getting 
into ones lungs

Mask - (Breathing - heavy duty) - for preventing dust getting into 
ones lungs

Metal Edge - (1/8 x 4 ins x needed width) - for making scarf joints

Paint and Rust Stripper - (Wire brush used with electric drill) - for 
scuffing surfaces

Palette - (Plywood - epoxy coated) - for when applying epoxy putty

Palm Sander - (Electric) - for sanding small areas

Palm Sander - (Hand) - for sanding small but sensitive areas 
including fillets

Pencil - for general marking

Plane - (Low angle Stanley no 118) - for shaping bilge runners and 
cabin parts

Planer - (Power) - for smoothing rough areas
          I borrowed one, but only for shaping the mast.

Plastic Sheeting - for covering sides and stern when glassing 
bottom
          Bin liners

Putty Knives - (Various - narrow to broad up to 6 inches) for 
smoothing epoxy

Rags - for cleaning

Ratchet Strap - for holding bow end of bottom in place when 
assembling

Rope - for making Spanish windlasses when assembling hull

Rotary Grinder (With No 16 and 36 grit discs) - for shaping and 
smoothing

Sandpaper (Aluminium Oxide 40-60g grit) - for smoothing

Saw Horses x 2 - for supporting items being worked on

Screwdriver - (Electric) - for rapid and multiple screwing
          I used the battery drill for this

Sleepers - (2 x 4 in x 4 in x 16 ft) - for supporting hull while building

Sponges - for removing epoxy bloom by the application of water 
and soap

Spray Bottle - (With trigger lever action) - for dispensing Vinegar

Squeegee - (With a bevel edge) - for spreading epoxy on panels

Staple Gun and staples - for temporary attachments

Straight Edge - (Metal - 4 to 5 ft) - for drawing and cutting straight 
lines

String - for tying and bundling things together and for guidelines

Surform - (Stanley No 21-115) - for forming and smoothing

Table Saw - (With carbide blade - 7.5 - 8.0 inches + Sanding Disc) -
for cutting
          I bought one of these but could have done without it 
(Anyone want a 2nd hand saw?)What???

Tape Measure - (1 inch wide) - for measuring long lengths

Templates - (Cardboard or paper) - for shaping insulation foam and 
other parts

Tubs - (Some graduated) - for mixing epoxy
          Muller yoghurt pots. Now I am using the square tubes as in the ballast articles.
Get epoxy in tubs with dispensing 
pumps.

White Vinegar - (Distilled) - for cleaning epoxy-spoiled items such 
as tools
          I used brown vinegar as it was cheaper. I used about 1.5 
gallons


Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.