From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Square tubs verses round tubs
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 13:08:46 -0500

I know that Don will rail against what I have to say here so I ask the reader to make up his own mind if there is any merit to it. When at Gold Coast Yachts our biggest problems came from poorly mixed epoxy so we sought out ways to eliminate, or at least reduce the chance, that epoxy would be improperly mixed. It is easier to stir in a round container then a square and the chances of ensuring all the epoxy molecules are linked are much greater when mixing in a round container. No square mixing container would ever be allow in the shop. However, as Don points out, it is easier to pour from a square container and there would not be a problem in transferring from round to square for such a purpose. We used to go around and check cured epoxy in used containers and one day we found some soft and uncured in the bottom edges of our round containers. We deduced that using round tongue depressors could be the culprit because you could not scrape out the edges with them so we took to cutting off the first inch of all the stir sticks to make them square and hopefully reduce the occurrence of the problem. It seemed to work as no more uncured epoxy turned up in the bottom edges.

The problem of uncured epoxy in general never went away and the greatest cause was workers inattention to what they were doing, i.e. looking at someone while talking and pumping epoxy at the same time, thereby not noticing that the hardener had run out or missed the pot altogether. While this should not be a problem for the home builder working by himself it is still easy to get distracted by someone who stopped by to chat etc.

The other problem is in how much stirring do you do. At Gold Coast we had a very simple rule: stir well while scraping the sides often for a full three minutes at least and four were better. A friend came by my shop one day and was helping me build wooden ribs for an airplane I was building. He had built and was flying a wood airplane that he had built himself so I had no problem in letting him help me. I watched as he mixed his first batch of epoxy and noted that he just kind of swirled it about a bit and then started to glue up. I stopped him and insisted he mix at least four minutes before applying and he was shocked I would require so much time. I told him of the above mentioned problems and then he didn't have a problem with it. However, I did notice afterward that he rarely flew his airplane anymore.

Tailwinds

Glen

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.538 / Virus Database: 333 - Release Date: 11/14/2003