From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Square tubs verses round tubs
Date: Sat, 15 Nov 2003 16:35:42 -0600

Hello Glen, what utter nonsense. 

Round containers, paper tiny cups all have small corners (At the bottom) and tiny crevices, these are far sharper, tighter and harder to get to than the well-radiused bottom of the plastic tub. Get a sharp enough stick to reach that bottom corner, and soon you shall has epoxy on your shoe.

 If you wish to use round paper cups, go ahead but don't place doubt in the minds of those that don't know any better when there is no good reason to do this, they have enough doubts already, epoxy is plenty strong and no one need have any doubts that, ever. 

I have hear this same argument many times, and it simply isn't true. I can reach the corners of the plastic tub as well as you or anyone else can using the tiny junction at the bottom of a round paper cup. Punch a few holes or tip a few cups over, clean up the floor, and you will quickly be moving to the stable solid mixing plastic tub. 

Most of the problems I have seen are not mixing ones, but incorrect measurements, incorrect temperatures, lack of attention to the amount of time to properly mix the two chemicals, poor application so on, not failure in mixing. How many actual failures do you truly know of that were due to bad mixing? You found some soft epoxy, and said it was a mixing problem, come on!

Care in mixing, paying attention to how you are mixing and watching the time is the key to good mixing, two minutes is plenty of time, your worker was correct and you caused him worry where there didn't need to be any. too much mixing and you curing time drops, too much and you create bubbles. 

If you still have doubts about what I have said, make a few test sticks of wood, and you shall see what I have said is true, they will never fail, ever. I have never, not never had a bad mix or a glue joint fail using this method. 

However, do what you like spill cups, over mix, poke hole in the bottom of cups, or stir too slowly for a properly mix because you are too scared you might punch a hole in the bottom of that flimsy cup, and than worry yourself and others for no good reason. What are you trying to do?

I have built spars, many parts, with the same square tubs, they are standing, and holding together. The instructions for mixing epoxy correctly are detailed in the Paradox booklet. If you want to worry yourself about epoxy worry about temperature. 

Don