From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 16 Nov 2003 11:46:37 -0600
Subject: Re: Square tubs verses round tubs

"I tried the vinegar but personally didn't like it." 

Glen 
"What you personally don't like and what works are two different things. What the homebuilder needs is less of your kind of stuff, and something he can use, practically, without exposing himself to dangerous chemicals. Is this my personal opinion, no, it my advice to boatbuilders. Don

Note:
Never, ever, use vinegar to clean your skin, and wear gloves when using it. Work CLEAN. If you take precautions epoxy should not get on your skin in the first place, if it does follow the epoxy manufactures advice for removing it. Work sensibly and you should never have a problem of any kind. 

Some would like to make much more out of it than need be. Don

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: Glen Maxwell 
Date: Sunday, November 16, 2003 9:35 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Square tubs verses round tubs

Hi Nels,

Thank you for your kind words. It is true that the lower the ratio of  resin to hardener the more forgiving the mix. The trade off is in the strength of the end product. There are many times that my projects could have been done with 1:1 mixes but I prefer to just use one epoxy for everything so have stayed with the 5:1 over the years. Also, being the cheapskate that I am, I buy mine from Fiberglass Coatings in St Pete FL in five gal and one gal quantities for considerably less than the west brand. They also give you a full five gal of resin and the same with their hardener. Some people prefer to use acetone (a horribly toxic chemical) or vinegar for cleaning up with. A thinner called T-12 can be purchased from Fiberglass Coatings for about $5 a gal and is far superior to anything else. I am sure you can get the same thing in the West can but they are sooooo proud of their stuff. T-12 has turned out ,for me anyway, to be very cheap because I can put about 2 inches in a coffee can and keep my brushes and tools (putty knife, filleting tools ect.) in it with the lid on and I find myself using the same throw away brush a year later. So what I paid for the thinner I have more then saved on brushes. I tried the vinegar but personally didn't like it.

Tailwinds,
Glen

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: Nels 
Date: Saturday, November 15, 2003 3:11 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Square tubs verses round tubs

Hi Glen,

I just want you to know that I appreciate the time and effort you put into this sharing of knowledge based on real experience. That is what makes forums such as this so valuable as a learning tool. Particularly when there is no commercial agenda behind the sharing of this knowledge!

Same vote of appreciation goes to Al and Bill.

I have seen it advertised by a couple of epoxy companies that the 1:1 ratio epoxies are more forgiving of small inaccuracies in measurement than the higher ratio mixes, such as 5:1. Makes common sense to me that this would be the case - less chance for error - I was wondering what your opinion on this is?

Thanks,
Nels

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.