From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 00:34:11 -0000
Subject: A proposal, a real one

I submit to the one, true Paradoxbuilders group, the notion of composing a build manual for Matt Layden's Paradox.

While I have never viewed the (for profit) literature on the market, nor do I feel compelled to do so to effect the completion of my own boat, I realize that there are those members of Paradoxbuilders who may find a clear, concise manual of benefit. 

I am a lifelong professional boatbuilder, and sailor. I understand that Glen is as well. I would hardly be surprised to find that there are other marine professionals on the group. Many of you are accomplished amateur boatbuilders, and your contributions would be welcomed and appreciated. Matt Layden would of course be welcome to contribute to clarity or any other way that he desires, but we shall respect his penchant for privacy and utilize the body of knowledge from the construction of other examples of Paradox. A member with experience in copy editing, journalism, and/or technical writing may be enlisted to insure that personal opinions are not incorporated into the build manual unless the opinion is respected by the group as reflected by a poll. There shall be no exhibits of demagoguery, sociopathy, or ego incorporated within our manual. In every manner, our manual will be respectful of Matt Layden's design, sound construction, and the past, current, and future builders of the Paradox design. 

Our Paradox build manual would be written to facilitate the construction of an example of Paradox, exactly as the design was drawn. There would be no incorporation of additional (or subtracted) features, or alternative methods of construction, within the body of our manual; these ideas would best be served within the forum. Departure from design would not be acceptable within our manual. It may be reasonable to expect that an occasional question(s) be respectfully posed to Matt Layden for the express purpose of obtaining clarity, if the group is unable to arrive at clarity with the information we already have.

Perhaps the manual could be fleshed out within the forum, or within a committee of Paradoxbuilders members. Hopefully, an able member of the group would step forward to provide editing. Subject to review by the Paradoxbuilders group, or designated committee, the final draft (perhaps in chronological sections) would be posted to the files section for the express use of the Paradoxbuilders group. We already have the benefit of Matt Layden's file on the Paradox sailplan, and Glen's file for the upsizing of the design. I think that the manual would be subject to revisions as necessary to correct and/or clarify. Photos of relevant detail should accompany the text. I think that these photos could be provided by members as they become available.

The purpose of this manual, would be to promote the sound, and accurate construction to the Paradox design, as drawn by Matt Layden.

As I propose this as a group effort, I am eager to read all contributions by the group.

Respectfully,
DC