From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: New Paradox boatbuilding group
Date: Sun, 16 Nov 2003 20:29:30 -0600

DC,

In my opinion, and from what I have seen on this group so far, there is very little chance of anything being produced from it that will be of any value for the serious Paradox boat builder. Especially if you are involved. Check the archives for proof of this. With all your : ) : ) s. Building bad Paradoxes will do nothing for the craft's well-established reputation. 

Think about this; without my first writing and finally with its publication on Paradox (MAIB 1996), and Dave's articles, no one would have ever known or even noticed that Paradox even existed. That's how the world discovered Paradox, those writing. Am I claiming credit for this? Yep. Who built the first Paradox after Matt, me. Who has supported the craft since its beginning, Dave Bolduc and me. You have a lot of catching up to do.

The best advice for Paradox boat builders that want to build a craft the right way is to joint the following group. Don
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Paradoxboatbuilders/?yguid=3D56010005

Dear, dear Don,

I shall not be joining your effort to subvert the good work of the Paradoxbuilders group, which is found at:

http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
Yahoo! Groups: paradoxbuilders

Contrary to your megalomaniacal nature, you indeed, are NOT the moderator of Paradoxbuilders as you claim to be in your preceding post. Rather, that would be the esteemed Glen Maxwell, a professional boatbuilder of no ill repute.

And all this time I thought of you as merely an undiagnosed sociopath.

I have proposed to the paradoxbuilders group, the group compilation of a Paradoxbuilders, Paradox build manual. It of course, will be made available to the entire Paradoxbuilders group, completely free of charge, and shall benefit from the culmination of experience from the entire group. You are welcome to contribute, but I must strongly recommend that you refrain from all hostilities. This manual shall be compiled to respect the design of Matt Layden, sound construction, and all builders of the Paradox design, past, present, and future.

Good luck Don.

DC