From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: (Taking my marbles and going away) Group
Date: Sun, 16 Nov 2003 20:56:57 -0600


Dc I only react in kind. Don


Sorry that you have come away with that impression Don. On the
contrary, it has been a matter of reputation and respect that I take
this community seriously. 

I have spent considerable time contributing to the group. I have
enjoyed the sharing of information, which is part and parcel of this
community. Recently I posted photos of my boat. You on the other hand,
have not posted any photos, and you have been absent for at least
eight months after the last spat which caused you to leave in a huff.

You have flamed your own customers. You have flamed the moderator of
this group. You have flamed just to flame.

I feel fortunate to have identified you early on, as a fraud. The
wizard had the benefit of a man behind the curtain. You Don, do not.

In closing, I would recommend that you keep handy for your new "taking
my marbles and going away" group, a copy of each:

The Elements of Style, by Strunk and White
The Elements of Editing, by Plotnik
The Elements of Grammar, by Shertzer
...and any old dictionary if you choose not to use a spell checker.

You may also seek the comfort of professional therapy and family to
help you with your problems.

Good luck Don.

DC

---

Hello Brian, the point is these nuisance post like DC's makes real
progress difficult, if not impossible. Let me explain.

These time-wasters are just playing mind games, for them is not
possible stop this kind of thing for they enjoy doing just this kind
of thing. They belong to these groups to be cute, and for pointless
chatter, contributing nothing that is worthwhile to anyone. First they
are cute and then nasty, which is where they want to be in the first
place, they are itching for a fight. That's how it is.

You can't leave bad message stand or let it pass by, meaning it
takes a great deal of my time spending non-productive time spent
replying to nonsensical messages. Good time wasted. Someone once said
if you don't respond to each and every false statement or attack, if
left standing it is taken for a truth. Can't let that happen.

I have been doing this group thing a long time and know this to be
true from past experiences. Members (Good ones) of groups like this
join to learn things about their interest, these member are of value,
and their post reflect this.

For those that care, picture me calm when I reply, for that's really
how it is, sometimes you have to first get their attention first,
being direct and to the point helps this end this stupid process. I
haven't, as yet found a better way, if anyone has let me know. Don

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.