From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Don Elliott
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 12:42:18 -0500

Dear Members;

I've been away for a couple of days and upon my return had a box full of e-mails. Surprisingly most contained the name Don Elliott.

A review of the archived messages will reveal a contented group passing information back and forth and helping one another out through mutual respect of the views and abilities of the membership. That is until Don Elliott wades in and starts rudely disrespecting and verbally abusing the members, whose posts he doesn't take the time to read carefully or those he doesn't like and has banned from his communistic groups where he can control the freedom of speech and thought. He even feels that he must form his own Paradox group (behind the iron curtain of censorship of those who would disagree with him).

I received much private e-mail requesting that I ban him from the group and in the past I responded that to do so would, in effect, reduce me to his petty, paranoid level. Again I find myself at this juncture. There is a silent majority, I believe, within the group that will listen to only so much spiteful behavior before just leaving and such is the case we are seeing now. 

The following is an excerpt from a private email and a person I respect highly. It is not from someone with whom Elliott has had an altercation (to my knowledge):

Earlier today I had decided to unsubscribe from this group because Don
was starting to get active here.  I see Don as a dark spirit and far
too argumentative.  When I read his posts it pretty much ruins my day
to learn that there is such a mean spirited person.  I don't need to
get brought down by his selfishness.  Frankly he doesn't really know
what he is talking about much of the time, he certainly overestimates
his own boating knowledge.  And then he has to be such a pompous ass
about it.

I will stick around for a while to see what happens.  But I can't take
too many Don Elliot posts without feeling physically ill and depressed.

I may be wrong here, but I sense this writer's feelings may mirror the silent many, the last line certainly mirrors mine. So it is with a heavy heart that I am going to ban Don Elliott from the group. Not because of my personal feelings (a courtesy Don would not allow me), but for the good of the group and so that we can get back in harmony. It should be no big deal anyway, I suppose, because he cross posts to so many groups anyone wishing to listen to his antagonistic banter will read it anyway. 

This action has not been taken lightly because I abhor censorship in any form (Don will have the distinction of being the only one thus far to be banned from the group). It is my feeling that in taking this action I am not censoring Don's speech but instead his penchant for woefully disrespecting the views of others and inciting unrest and disorder amongst an otherwise peaceful and benevolent group. 

I would ask the group for their support in this action, as I know there will be those who disagree with the severity of it. Nonetheless, I feel it is in the best interest of the group.

Sincerely,

Glen Maxwell, Group Moderator

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.538 / Virus Database: 333 - Release Date: 11/10/2003