From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Autumn refit
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 21:45:02 +0000


Well, now that it is safe to express an opinion again, I thought that those of you still building may be interested in what I have been doing over the last couple of weeks.

I stripped everything out and hoovered up all the sand hiding in the corners, then replaced everything with suitable additions of shock cord or velcro to hold the items which have been designated a 'home'.

The sand gets in because I quite often land on beaches and reboarding inevitably results in sand and water from my feet. The water, though not in large quantities had caused me some problems. Anything cardboard or cloth that was put in the bottom of the side storage bins ended up damp as the bins are open at the bottom. I have, therefore, added a shelf, a couple of inches up from the bottom, to each of the aft bins. This shelf is almost identical to the one on the plans at the top of the bin and will keep everything dry in all but the worst flooding. The space under the shelf is still accessible through the hatches in the floor.

Another mod that I needed to make showed up as the result of a 5 hour sail with the sail reefed down half way. This was the first time I had sailed for any length of time with the sail reefed, and when I inspected the gear afterwards I found quite severe chafe where the furling line came through the deck. I had not put sufficient radius on the end of the copper pipe. I have made up a little brass insert which should cure the problem, but it would have been much easier to have done it right in the first place.

I also got some minor chaffing where the tack line goes through the deck, but I fixed that by sleeving the line with plastic tubing.

Little jim is now back in sailing trim so, in the unlikely event that we get a nice weekend, we can make a dash for the coast for a quick couple of days afloat.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.