From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: A proposal, a real one
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 22:46:31 -0000

Woohoo! OK folks, it looks like we have a wealth of ability in the editing and organizing department, with Bill Longyard's and Andy's submission of services. We should be able to compile a really valuable resource for all Paradox builders and potential builders.

I would like to reiterate, that as a group effort, all contributions are welcome. Andy brings up a good point: amatuer builders often have questions which may seem simple to the experienced hand, but which may stop construction (or even consideration) in it's tracks. While it would probably be impossible to include all of the tricks of the trade, the details are important. To this end, we may wish to be able to point an aspiring builder in the direction of a specific source. Please don't disregard the value of the group archives, and there seem to always be good ideas flowing, if the question is directly posed to the group. I'll touch on rolling bevels in another post.

Perhaps a bibliography would be a valuable inclusion to our manual. Any book should be relevant to the construction of Paradox. In other words, a book which focuses on the construction of 19th century fishing schooners may not apply, while a particular work of Phil Bolger may. A book detailing plywood and epoxy construction would serve us well. I nominate "The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction" as an inclusion to the bibliograpy. To this end, I will start a thread for bibliography nominations. Please feel free to share your thoughts.

Nels reminds me that some receivers of email are charged per email (wow, really?). It may make sense to change email preferences to "daily digest" or "I will read messages on the group", as bibliography suggestions could be short and to the point.

I know that one person must write something to submit to the group, for suggestions in content, quality, and to arrive at a finished product. I shall begin work on an introduction to the plans, including notes on materials, and tools. I should have something in a few days.

It is important to me that our manual be presented in one clear voice representing the composite of the group. To this end, I ask for volunteers to write up specific instruction on any subject for which they feel qualified and comfortable. I think that an individual could work on spars, or rudder, or insulation/floatation, or the vent trunk, or... Just issue fair warning to the group that you are writing a piece on a specific facet, so that we don't have folks stepping on other's toes. Also, the submission of photos which directly relate to a detail of construction would be welcome. Sometimes, a quality illustration is particularly useful.

Your work is subject to editing. This can sometimes hurt feelings, but is a necessary means of reducing content to a clear and concise text. Editing should allow the compellation to take on a singular voice. Content should be respective of the plans, and the materials specified. For example, just because I am contemplating the construction of hollow spar(s) of birdsmouth construction, in Sitka Spruce and carbon fiber, doesn't mean that text on spars should reflect this. The plans must be followed. We are trying to achieve a recipe, if you will, for the construction of a boat to the Paradox design. I encourage anyone to alert the group to an inconsistancy, should one appear. 

All participation is welcome and encouraged.

Respectively,
DC