From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: A proposal, a real one
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 18:48:51 -0500


In an effort to get this ball rolling and help DC motivate those who can to contribute to this project I would like to request that the members think of some facet of construction that they had to really ponder over and write up a piece on how they solved it. Don't worry about your journalistic talents as all we are looking for at this time is solutions to problems. Bill and Andy have already graciously said they would help us out in the journalistic department. As an example I was a little daunted by the lower gudgeon construction so I will volunteer to write up an account of how I went about building it. As DC has mentioned, this will be a living manual until all the pieces and lose ends are tied together so feel free to contribute small portions. I would ask that you give the article a name and put it in a soon to be Folder named Build Manual. Please feel free to add a sub folder for your input. Once in a folder notify the group with a post that a file has been uploaded. 

Tailwinds

Glen

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Subject: Re: A proposal, a real one
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 17:46:07 -0700 (MST)
From: DC 

Woohoo! OK folks, it looks like we have a wealth of ability in the
editing and organizing department, with Bill Longyard's and Andy's
submission of services. We should be able to compile a really valuable
resource for all Paradox builders and potential builders.

I would like to reiterate, that as a group effort, all contributions
are welcome. Andy brings up a good point: amateur builders often have
questions which may seem simple to the experienced hand, but which may
stop construction (or even consideration) in its tracks. While it
would probably be impossible to include all of the tricks of the
trade, the details are important. To this end, we may wish to be able
to point an aspiring builder in the direction of a specific source.
Please don't disregard the value of the group archives, and there seem
to always be good ideas flowing, if the question is directly posed to
the group. I'll touch on rolling bevels in another post.

Perhaps a bibliography would be a valuable inclusion to our manual.
Any book should be relevant to the construction of Paradox. In other
words, a book which focuses on the construction of 19th century
fishing schooners may not apply, while a particular work of Phil
Bolger may. A book detailing plywood and epoxy construction would
serve us well. I nominate "The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction"
as an inclusion to the bibliography. To this end, I will start a thread
for bibliography nominations. Please feel free to share your thoughts.

I know that one person must write something to submit to the group,
for suggestions in content, quality, and to arrive at a finished
product. I shall begin work on an introduction to the plans, including
notes on materials, and tools. I should have something in a few days.

It is important to me that our manual be presented in one clear voice
representing the composite of the group. To this end, I ask for
volunteers to write up specific instruction on any subject for which
they feel qualified and comfortable. I think that an individual could
work on spars, or rudder, or insulation/floatation, or the vent trunk,
or... Just issue fair warning to the group that you are writing a
piece on a specific facet, so that we don't have folks stepping on
other's toes. Also, the submission of photos which directly relate to
a detail of construction would be welcome. Sometimes, a quality
illustration is particularly useful.

Your work is subject to editing. This can sometimes hurt feelings, but
is a necessary means of reducing content to a clear and concise text.
Editing should allow the compilation to take on a singular voice.
Content should be respective of the plans, and the materials
specified. For example, just because I am contemplating the
construction of hollow spar(s) of birdsmouth construction, in Sitka
Spruce and carbon fiber, doesn't mean that text on spars should
reflect this. The plans must be followed. We are trying to achieve a
recipe, if you will, for the construction of a boat to the Paradox
design. I encourage anyone to alert the group to an inconsistancy,
should one appear. 

All participation is welcome and encouraged.

Respectively,
DC

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
AD HERE
       
       

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.538 / Virus Database: 333 - Release Date: 11/10/2003