From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Speaking up for Don
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 00:10:08 -0000

I'd Like to speak on Glen's behalf -

I have witnessed Don for over two years now - join groups and after appearing friendly for awhile, begin to attack the moderator of the group as being incompetent - as he did here a few days ago - then suggest to the members to come over and join his group if they really want to learn something. (As he did here a short time ago.)

Here is a copy of his latest message telling us what he thinks of us:

"These time-wasters are just playing mind games, for them is not possible stop this kind of thing for they enjoy doing just this kind of thing. They belong to these groups to be cute, and for pointless chatter, contributing nothing that is worthwhile to anyone. First they are cute and then nasty, which is where they want to be in the first place, they are itching for a fight. That's how it is.

You can't leave bad message stand or let it pass by, meaning it takes a great deal of my time spending non-productive time spent replying to nonsensical messages. Good time wasted. Someone once said if you don't respond to each and every false statement or attack, if left standing it is taken for a truth. Can't let that happen.

I have been doing this group thing a long time and know this to be true from past experiences. Members (Good ones) of groups like this join to learn things about their interest, these member are of value, and their post reflect this.

For those that care, picture me calm when I reply, for that's really how it is, sometimes you have to first get their attention first, being direct and to the point helps this end this stupid process. I haven't, as yet found a better way, if anyone has let me know. Don"

All the time I have been a member of this group I have never witnessed this kind of intolerance by anyone else.

I hope Bill that you are not inferring that because a person is knowledgable and artisitic, that gives him the right to verbally abuse those who do not agree with his opinions.

Paradox is a great design and there is room for more than one discussion group on building it.

This one is my choice.

Respectfully, Nels