From: Jeffery Please <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Speaking up for Don
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 08:53:45 -0000

Bill, I will second that.

Jeff UK

From: Longyard William H. <longyard@ix.netcom.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Speaking up for Don
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 23:23:26 -0500

Glen,

I commend the work you have done for those of us interested in the Paradox. You've given us all a voice we didn't have before. However, I strongly urge you to reconsider your position on banning Don from this group.

I was dismayed over the weekend to read such petty bickering on this group. Like most, I see boat building as an outlet from the normal work-a-day world where bickering and sniping at competitors and colleagues goes on all the time. Boat builders share something in common that the rest of the world doesn't get, and perhaps that exclusivity brings us even closer together. Why bickering entered this forum in unknown to me, but I too find it inappropriate and would not stay if it became the norm for this group.

Don is a remarkably talented man who knows a lot more about boatbuilding than I do. He is a tremendous artist whose work has benefited boatbuilders on this forum and elsewhere. Don very generously allowed me to use one of his sketches in my book A SPECK on the SEA to illustrate the Stephen Ladd story. Whatever else Don is I can attest that he is generous. How many of us are as generous?

Therefore, I wonder if we could not as a group call a general truce to all the sniping and agree that from this moment forward NO PERSONAL name-calling will be allowed on this group. I think some of this has gone on by several parties, justly or unjustly I don't know- but it doesn't matter. To single out Don for this treatment when others may have done the same seems not in the spirit of what boat building is all about. It smacks to me of being black balled by the commodore of the local Yacht Club because your boat isn't long enough, or doesn't have the correct crystal sherry decanter. As Paradox fans we should all abhor and be afraid of such treatment. Let's treat everyone equally and give them all fair warning.

You are correct that you must end this type of behavior on the group. As I said, I won't stay if it continues and we've already lost at least one member because of it. I will support the future banning of any member who resorts to any time of name calling or snide sideswiping. I ask you, and all members, to reconsider the present situation and give this group a chance to have a new start.

Yours,
Bill Longyard

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor


To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com



Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.