From: Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Removable foam floatation
Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 20:29:45 +0000

Good idea Glen. This would also make it feasible to use expanded polystyrene as the skin will protect it from damage

From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Removable foam floatation
Date: Thu, 29 Nov 2001 09:23:16 -0800

When I built  "Zoe"  I got to the step that required the installation of the foam and was faced with a dilemma. If I glued the foam in then I would not be allowed to check behind it periodically for any signs of moisture intrusion. Also, I had a hard time with the thought of the appearance of dimpled foam after a little wear; it just didn't set right with me. As I wanted to get on with the project, I elected to leave out the foam. I don't have a problem sailing a boat that doesn't possess the ability to stay afloat if holed, I've never sailed on a monohull that could, but it sure would be an undeniable plus if for no other reason then peace of mind. 

Many months have passed since that juncture and I have had time to think of how I could have installed the foam in a way that would allow occasional removal and solved the appearance problem as well. The solution I came up with does involve a little extra work but I think the results would be well worth it and quite handsome.

For those interested, the process involves the use of door skin, a 1/8 inch mahogany plywood that is generally available (even at Home Depot) and is inexpensive enough that I use it as pattern stock.

Start by cutting door skin panels to fit the areas between the bulkheads, chine logs and sheer clamps. On the backside of these panels glue the foam. Put the foamed panel in place and by pressing in to get a nice fit determine where mounting blocks will need to be placed on the inside of the hull. Glue small blocks the thickness of the foam to the inside of the hull where needed. Again, put the panel in place and press in. This time the mounting blocks will leave marks on the foam. Cut the foam away in the areas marked and mount the panel with screws. You can now paint or varnish these panels and have a very attractive inner hull that will provide insulation and flotation while allowing you to inspect behind it. Naturally the same procedure would be used for the deck head ect. This would also allow for hiding wiring and plumbing runs.

Tailwinds Glen

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.