From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 18 Nov 2003 19:44:33 -0000
Subject: Re: A proposal, a real one

Thanks Glen. 

I've been wondering about that lower gudgeon. Looking forward to read
how you did it. I have contemplated casting a chopped mat and epoxy
undersized part in a female mold, and then wrapping it with roving,
but then I also wondered why a person couldn't make an undersized part
from purpleheart or similar, and then wrap it with roving. For that
matter, Duraglass, Kittyhair, or other polyester product, again
wrapped with epoxy/roving. These are probably all more complicated
than Matt had intended. 

I'm looking forward to seeing your solution.

DC

From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@a...> 
Subject: Re: A proposal, a real one
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

In an effort to get this ball rolling and help DC motivate those who
can to contribute to this project I would like to request that the
members think of some facet of construction that they had to really
ponder over and write up a piece on how they solved it. Don't worry
about your journalistic talents as all we are looking for at this time
is solutions to problems. Bill and Andy have already graciously said
they would help us out in the journalistic department. As an example I
was a little daunted by the lower gudgeon construction so I will
volunteer to write up an account of how I went about building it. As
DC has mentioned, this will be a living manual until all the pieces
and lose ends are tied together so feel free to contribute small
portions. I would ask that you give the article a name and put it in a
soon to be Folder named Build Manual. Please feel free to add a sub
folder for your input. Once in a folder notify the group with a post
that a file has been uploaded. 

Tailwinds

Glen

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: A proposal, a real one
From: DC 
Date: Mon, 17 Nov 2003 5:46 PM

Woohoo! OK folks, it looks like we have a wealth of ability in the
editing and organizing department, with Bill Longyard's and Andy's
submission of services. We should be able to compile a really valuable
resource for all Paradox builders and potential builders.

I would like to reiterate, that as a group effort, all contributions
are welcome. Andy brings up a good point: amatuer builders often have
questions which may seem simple to the experienced hand, but which may
stop construction (or even consideration) in it's tracks. While it
would probably be impossible to include all of the tricks of the
trade, the details are important. To this end, we may wish to be able
to point an aspiring builder in the direction of a specific source.
Please don't disregard the value of the group archives, and there seem
to always be good ideas flowing, if the question is directly posed to
the group. 

Perhaps a bibliography would be a valuable inclusion to our manual.
Any book should be relevant to the construction of Paradox. In other
words, a book which focuses on the construction of 19th century
fishing schooners may not apply, while a particular work of Phil
Bolger may. A book detailing plywood and epoxy construction would
serve us well. I nominate "The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction"
as an inclusion to the bibliograpy. To this end, I will start a thread
for bibliography nominations. Please feel free