From: Glen Maxwell <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 22 Nov 2003 07:46:45 -0500
Subject: Re: FAQ File

OK, we're having problems with this one. If I could get a couple of volunteers for this project I will make them assistant moderators which will give them access to the files. Nels and DC, I've already made you two moderators so you can gain access to the Build Manual and the FAQ file. Please check to see if you now have access.
Tailwinds
Glen

Note: Message being replied to has been removed for clarity. 

Hi Glen,

Unfortunately or fortunately, depending on how you look at - the edit option is only available to the person who created the file/folder.

A suggestion might be that anyone who wishes to supply a response would offline it to you and you can cut and paste it in if it seems appropriate. If you are not sure then you could cut and paste it to the group for further discussion.

Another option is to use the polls function to get a opinion from those who are knowledgeable on a subject in question.

Each person might also add their name at the end if they so desire.

For example in the faq about chine runner effectiveness I might submit:

"Due to Paradox's relatively heavy displacement for it's size and the rocker of the hull, when the boat heels the lower chine runner effectively acts as a shallow fin keel would in a v-bottomed boat. The upwind chine clears the water and the lower chine effectively increases the waterline length of the boat. The result is a faster, more weatherly boat than what it would first appear to be when looking at the boat sitting at rest. Nels" 

I started the FAQ file using Nels list of questions as a departure point. I would ask that anyone who has the time and desire please feel free to click the edit button and start filling in the answers to the questions and adding new ones you would like to have answers to. 

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor.ADVERTISEMENT.

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to: paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.538 / Virus Database: 333 - Release Date: 11/10/2003