From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Build Manual, Introduction
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 21:46:45 -0000

Cool David. I look forward to seeing your contribution. What have you been up to lately? Are you still preparing Whisper for the sunny sojourn? What's going on with the new boat?

DC


I would be interested in the Yuloh part.

David


OK folks. Here's a start. Please don't hesitate to make suggestions for additions, ommissions, and editing. Please remember that this Build Manual should focus almost entirely on the construction of a boat. There really is no need to insert personal anecdotes, or justifications for the existence of the design. This should be a nuts and bolts reference.

Next, I'll work something up on tools, supplies, working environment. All suggestions are welcome. It would be good at this point to add to the bibliography.

Glen, I thought that I'd just post this for now. With a little more sleep, I'll be good to give a try with the file section.

Anyone else ready to write up a section on a particular task? Spars? Rudder? Yuloh? Vent trunk? Etc....

DC


This build manual is being created to offer guidance to builders of Matt Layden's Paradox design. The design specifications will be referenced within the manual. While some builders may wish to alter the design to their own preferences, it is generally recommended that the design be followed.

For questions regarding the Paradox design and type, see Dave Bolduc's website:
http://www.microcruising.com/
Microcruising in the Bahamas
Also, please feel free to view the many photos, files, and archived messages on the Paradoxbuilders Group.

The Paradox design is a heavy displacement sharpie type, which is the result of empirical data through testing of scale models and preceeding vessels of the same type. This design is proven.

The plans utilize metric measurements. While North American builders may shudder at the metric system, it really is quite easy to master. Buy a metric tape measure and an appropriate scale rule (1:10 and 1:20).

Additional copies of the plans may be made for the use of the original purchaser. It may be desirable to have a copy at the build location, the computer station, the head... Time spent studying the plans is time well spent. Additionally, a build journal or notes, and a camera can be very helpful as construction progresses.

The choice of materials is really up to the individual builder. The designer has offered many suggestions, from ACX to marine grade plywood, and Douglas Fir to Mahogany. Where necessary in this manual, a specific species will be referenced, but generally plywood and lumber will be referenced ambiguously. Take the time to educate yourself regarding the working qualities, health concerns, ecological impact, and economy of each material choice.

A materials list should be arrived upon by the individual builder. This insures adequate study of the plans. Keep in mind that a materials list compiled by one builder may not consider the tools and techniques utilized by another. A materials list is a valuable tool in the ultimate understanding of the design. A chronological list of actions to complete a specific task will greatly help organization.

It is not necessary, or advised to purchase all of the materials at one time, however in some circumstances, savings may be realized by the purchase of 5 gallons of epoxy, or 10 sheets of plywood, or a spool of line.

This manual will be arranged in a logical order, but the builder may feel free to undertake tasks such as the construction of the rudder, spars, sail, yuloh, etc., at whichever time is desired. Sometimes these smaller tasks can be undertaken while the weather is poor, or as economics and drying/curing times dictate. Obviously, some tasks must wait for others to be completed. 

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/