From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
Date: Tue, 25 Nov 2003 19:48:39 -0000
Subject: Re: Insulation and rot

Hi Derek.

I will be installing the specified foam board to well sealed (epoxy)
surfaces. I don't trust, nor to I particularly enjoy working with
contact cement, so I will glue the foam with epoxy. I will depart from
the plans in installing a veneer of 3mm Okoume marine over the foam. I
don't like the idea of exposed foam, and the damage that may occur. I
think I worry more about water intrusion of the foam, rather than
water intrusion or the surrounding structure. That said, Little
Cruiser and Paradox both have painted, contact cemented foam, on AXC
plywood construction.

Removable foam as Glen has discussed, would certainly work. I think
that Glen's idea of fastening through a veneer of 3mm ply, and the
foam, to a block(s) fastened to the hull has a lot of merit, even if
one decided to just glue everything down. 

With few pieces of deck hardware on the Paradox design, I worry very
little about deck leaks. I prefer hardware bonding rather than
thru-bolting, which assures even less worry about deck leaks. 

What worries me about loose foam, is any condensation which forms
between the foam and hull/deck. Again, with proper sealing with epoxy,
this condensation is not a worry, however I think that water intrusion
to the foam should be considered. With the specified foil faced foam,
how will the foil fare under wet, likely salty conditions. Perhaps the
squishy closhed cell foam rubber would be better for the removable
option. If the foam can be removed, condensation can be monitored,
just as rot, mold, and mildew. With glued foam, there is no gap
between the foam and hull/deck surface.

These two schools of thought have their pros and cons, just as the
argument for painted spars versus varnished spars. It's really up to
the individual to ponder all of the scenarios and make an educated
decision. 

Paradox and Little Cruiser have proven the validity of the foam
installation as designed. It's quick, easy, inexpensive. I bet the
foil faced foam could be repaired with the aluminium tape I've
occasionally run across.

Have fun.

DC