From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 27 Nov 2003 20:05:26 +0000
Subject: Re: Mast Construction help

To:             	paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From:           	"Paul" <kayaker37@hotmail.com>
Date sent:      	Thu, 27 Nov 2003 00:10:30 -0000
Subject:        	[paradoxbuilders] Mast Construction help
Send reply to:  	paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com


This had me puzzled for a while too.

No! The left is the front, rotated about line labelled 86

In the plan there are 3 uprights shown with wood grain. The left one 
is the section of the front of the mast. The centre one is the section 
of the rear of the mast. These two together represent the side view 
of the mast. The third one is the section of the side cheek. Only 
one is shown as they are symmetrical about the line marked CL.

If you cut the plan up the 500-900-900-900-800 line this may 
become clearer. on one piece is a side view section, on the other 
is the stbd half of a rear view section.

The dimensions down the left are the full width of the mast fore-aft. 
Next across are dimensions on the wood. These are the thickness 
of the wood and are the same for both fore and aft timbers, which is 
why there are no dims on the aft timber.

The dims on the wood to the right are the thickness of the port &amp; 
stbd timbers. The remaining dimension is from the centreline to the 
inside of the timber.

The bottom 500mm of the mast is shown both parallel (86 
dimension, dashed line) and tapered (not dimensioned) as this will 
be cut down to fit whatever size the socket in the mast step turns 
out to be.

To assemble follow Dons advice. Lay the rear timber on it's back 
(which is straight) and glue on a side piece. When cured bend and 
glue the front timber. Make the end plugs, fit wires etc and then 
glue on the other side. Finally round off the corners.

A tip for fitting the mast. I made the mast step and the vent trunk 
(with one side removable) attached to bulkhead 2 before 
assembling the hull. This allowed me to set up the mast and 
bulkhead horizontally, on trestles, while fitting the mast to the step 
and partners. Useful if you have to work indoors and don't have a 20 
ft high roof. When the deck is finally on just cut the hole to match 
the partners.

I hope all this makes some sort of sense. If not come back and we 
will try again :-)

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.