From: "amgraham2001" <amgraham2001@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Aussie Paradox sails
Date: Tue, 02 Dec 2003 10:41:11 -0000

Hello all

Another satisfied Paradoxbuilder reporting a successful launching on 
29 November 2003. The Aussie Paradox now as a name "Zero" and has 
been sailed and slept in. See my new photos under Aussie Paradox. 

I haven't read any posts since my last contact with the forum and 
will tentatively claim Zero as the first Aussie Paradox to hit the 
water.

Dedicated Paradoxbuilders will spot some more deviations from the 
plan done for my convenience in construction rather than as 
improvements to the design. In my last post I mentioned the ply 
cabin sides which are also flat front and back. The top is three 
laminations of 4mm ply thickened to 5 laminations at the front of 
the hatch opening - no beams. The hatch is two laminations of 4mm 
ply and the edges of the ply top slot into runners which are glued 
rather than bolted. Wood dowels are used to back up the hatch 
runner glue joints as they are for most of the joints in the boat.  
The hatch was completely waterproof in thunderstorms falling while 
the boat was in my yard.

A straight 3100 long sweep and nylon rowlock were substituted for 
the yuloh, both with lanyards. The sweep is wrapped with biaxial 
glass in the centre section A 1/2" brass rod is glued into the fwd 
boom end and pivots in a 50mm long brass bearing in a laminated and 
glassed over ply elbow attached to the tack strop. The fairlead for 
the reefing drum is a copper pipe through the elbow. This 
arrangement works ok and I will eventually make a more compact glass 
elbow. The Aluminium lightning rod runs down the forward face of 
the mast and across the deck to a 100mm wide 0.5mm Al sheet which 
wraps over the starboard gunnel and down to the waterline where it 
widens to become the ground plate. I used an aluminium compatible 
antifouling on the bottom and will wait and see how quickly the 
plate corrodes. There are no fixed electrics in the boat at this 
point.

I sewed the sail myself out of 6.3 oz cloth using Matt's MK 2 
dimensions and following most of his recommendations on 
construction. The sailmaking takes a lot of hours but at least you 
don't have to stop and wait for glue to set. I trusted the 
instructions and contacted all seams before sewing. If you sew 
yours make sure that you set up your machine level with long tables 
(at least 8 feet) each side so you can sew from a seated position. 
Buy extra bobbins as one bobbin only does about 4 metres of zig 
zag. I bought a new trailer to protect my hundreds of hours of 
labour but had to make my own towbar because the towbar 
manufacturers didn't think it could be done for my car - a 1300cc 
Daihatsu Sirion which has plenty of power but is a bit short on 
traction on a sandy ramp due to light weight and front drive. We 
made it back up the ramp with some wheelspin - next time I'll sweep 
the ramp in front of the drive wheels.

On the water.

I have never sculled a boat and took a while to work out that the 
paddle had to be angled to dig in to the water as you scull so it 
stays in the rowlock. I was impressed by the simplicity of the 
movement and how effective sculling is at moving the boat - Paradox 
ergonomics are perfect for this kind of propulsion as you can easily 
be brace yourself in the hatch opening. I will continue using the 
Nylon rowlock as it is easy on the sweep but will make a stiffer 
deck plate which angles out slightly from the stern.

I haven't sailed since 1992 and only sailed Zero for about 4 hours 
in total over 2 days. Zero is fitted with 145kg of lead immediately 
forward of bulkhead 3 in the deepest part of the hull. For my 
sailing trial I had another 20 kg of stores below the cabin sole and 
my 3kg sand anchor lashed on deck with 5 metres of 6mm chain in a 
bucket forward of bulkhead 1. The Boat trimmed nicely both single 
and doublehanded. On Saturday morning I sculled alone from the 
Bribie Island boat ramp into Pummicestone passage and raised the 
sail by resting the boom on the cabin top with a towel over the aft 
of the hatch cover to protect the sail from abrasion as it 
unrolled. I put some tension on the reef line however it is 
difficult for the beginner to keep the boom off the cabin while 
raising or reefing singlehanded due to considerable strength being 
required for both operations. Despite this I don't think I will fit 
a topping lift because I can protect the sail and will probably sail 
two up most of the time. The whole operation of raising or furling 
the sail is accomplished in less than a minute and in the safety of 
the cabin so I'll happily wear the weight of the halyard and reefing 
line. The boat was a little tender under sail but felt secure 
anyway. I never got the rail under but it feels as though she will 
just keep tracking straight even at uncomfortable heel angles (my 
rudder is 40mm shorter than designed). Zero was only sailed to 
windward that day and was able to hold position against a run in 
tide and make progress once the tide started to turn. She tacked 
reliably from the very beginning. I ran into a sandbank on the 
mainland side of the passage and simply got out and pushed the boat 
around - Brilliant compared to my previous trailer sailer with swing 
keel. Coming into shore is completely stress-free and for me is 
adequate compensation for less than brilliant stability or tacking 
angle.

Late in the afternoon my partner "Senorita" arrived on the Island 
and came down to the drying harbor I had chosen to spend the night 
in protected from waves by a large sand peninsula. We slept on a 
50mm foam mattress which is not particularly compact when rolled up 
but provides acceptable comfort. I tied the halyard away from the 
mast and had the quietest night sleep I have ever had in a boat. 
Senorita complained of my snoring as usual but said she was 
comfortable as was I (Zero has no mid bins). It will take a bit of 
practice for two to live efficiently in such a small space but one 
can always fish on the foredeck, swim or beachcomb while the other  
does chores in the cabin. On Sunday was Senorita's first ever sail 
so she put on a buoyancy vest for security and we sculled into deep 
water to raise the sail - easy to keep the boom aloft with the crew 
releasing the reefing line. We sailed downwind which was too easy 
and then upwind and reaching. The boat still tacked reliably two 
up. We were caught by an increase in wind speed at one time which 
heeled the boat alarmingly for Senorita so I reefed with her 
assistance which greatly reassured her by the simplicity with which 
the boat could be brought back to a comfortable angle of heel. I 
think the sail shape looks good however I am getting a bit of 
flutter in the luff while sailing upwind - perhaps just a tension 
issue. I am entirely satisfied with the first trial of Zero and 
Senorita is now even keener to have a two week sailing holiday in 
the new year due to the lack of drama and complication. Zero was a 
hit with beach-goers with much interest shown and many compliments so 
we expect to meet plenty of people on our holiday. I think that 
increasing the weight of ballast and stores below the sole up to 
200kg or more should address the stability issue. I would like to 
leave the anchor on deck as it is very convenient to have it there.

Zero cost about $5500 Aust sail away including basic gear to 
navigate, sail, anchor and live aboard. This includes all tools 
consumed in the job. You could save $500 or more or spend an 
unlimited amount. A new trailer cost nearly $1500 Aust.

Keep building those Paradoxes guys.