From: Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Zero proves herself
Date: Mon, 15 Dec 2003 22:14:15 +0000


Great to hear you had a good sail. Getting the ballast right seems to be quite important. 

That's a good point about cutting across the shallows. 

I too decided that not having a motor was going to improve my sailing, and I think it has, but actually there have only been a couple of places where I would have used it anyway. I am half-heartedly looking for an electric outboard but I think a VHF will have to come first.

From: "amgraham2001" <amgraham2001@yahoo.com.au>
Send reply to: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date sent: Mon, 15 Dec 2003 04:52:26 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Zero proves herself

Hi Guys 

Just reporting on my first passage in Zero across the open section of Moreton Bay. On Sunday morning Senorita and I sailed Zero from the Wellington Point boat ramp around the Northern end of Peel Island to the One Mile anchorage at Dunwich on Stradbroke Island returning to Wellington Point in the afternoon. The round trip of approximately 18 nautical miles was undertaken with only one tack if I recall rightly as the wind direction shifted from NW for the outward passage to NE for the return. I increased my ballast/stores by 25 kg to about 190 kg for this sail and report that stability and pointing ability are now to my satisfaction. Some professional crabbers asked where we were going on the way out and warned "it's pretty rough out there" but we only encountered 1-meter waves I would have expected in 10-15 knot winds. This was all new for poor Senorita of course and she spent most of the trip both ways lying on the cabin sole as a combination of anxiety and motion caused her some motion sickness. She hasn't been put off however as she could see how I was enjoying myself and that the trip was otherwise uneventful. I saved lots of time by taking advantage of Zero's shallow draft and sailing over sandbanks rather than unnecessarily beating around channel markers. I suggest that in many situations this advantage will negate any weakness in pointing ability. I had a lot of noise coming from the mainsheet block at the end of the boom and will lubricate it for my next sail and replace if that doesn't solve the problem. Another source of annoyance was the boom hitting against the mast on a run when the wind dropped and there was still plenty of wave action. The wind died on the way into the boat ramp so I had to scull about 500 meters. I feel that I will become a much better sailor for not having a motor on the boat and am relieved in a way that I don't have to suffer "will she start" outboard motor anxiety. My last comment is that in real life Zero is the prettiest most beautifully proportioned boat in the water - much better than photos can show. Sorry no sailing photos yet however I am sending some deck photos to Bill for his site. Until next time

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.