From: "David LeBlanc" <whisper@oz.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Steel?
Date: Fri, 26 Dec 2003 12:03:26 -0800

I would think steel in any reasonable thickness would make the boat far too heavy and, at the least, eat up a lot of carrying capacity.

If you're that concerned about hitting rocks or abrasion, add a layer or 2 of kevlar (and a depth sounder ;) )

David LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA


From: William Longyard [mailto:longyard@ix.netcom.com]
Sent: Friday, December 26, 2003 10:51
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Steel?


Sorry, I meant to say "LESS prone to damage or being holed".  I'm in favor of steel as a building material.

Bill Longyard


From: Jack Gardiner
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Friday, December 26, 2003 11:36 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Steel?


I think you'd gain the advantages of simpler and faster construction, and a hull that would be damaged on beaching or holed by surprise impacts (other than icebergs or Exocet missiles.)

Meaning it would be more prone to damage Bill??

I have another idea on top of the steel.... I have a roll of 12 oz biax without mat backing, I could biax the steel skinned hull? does fabric work with a steel base the same or better than it does with plywood??

Jack


From: William Longyard
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Friday, December 26, 2003 11:03 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Steel?


I would think 3/16 would be a too thick, perhaps 12 gauge (.10").
Remember, if you go with steel you should add some longitudinal stringers and a few more frames.  You are correct in that you could very much open up the mast bulkhead.  You would have to use steel tubing, but that would probably be a good idea for all bulkheads (1"x1") with stringers would likely be okay I would suspect. Make your gunnel out of 3/4 square tube and attach a wood deck to it.  Radar reflectivity?  I don't think there would be much difference because you are so low in the water.  I think you'd gain the advantages of simpler and faster construction, and a hull that would be damaged on beaching or holed by surprise impacts (other than icebergs or Exocet missiles.)

Bill Longyard


Yahoo! Groups Links

paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com


Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.