From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 28 Dec 2003 17:02:44 -0000
Subject: Re: Steel Dinghy Photo

Hi Bill,

That looks like a really nice little boat, although the image is pretty tiny on my laptop.

To get nice fair curves like that I would think they are constructed over a jig of some kind and the metal is quite thin.

Would be nice to see some close up photos of one, showing the scantlings and seams.

The vast majority of fishing skiffs in my part of the world are built that way, except they are aluminum and riveted together for the most part. Aluminum canoes are also made this way over forms and welded together. My experience has been that they are not particularly strong and prone to springing leaks if they hit a rock.

Almost all whitewater canoes are made like Bris - with foam cores and extremely tough flexible coatings. (Royalex being the most popular) If you look at the Bris 5.4 design - it is essentially a large whitewater canoe with a daggerboard, rudder and sail.

Not meaning to discourage building of a steel or aluminum Paradox, but only sharing my own personal experience, which is limited to those types of boats.

Paradox - if built to design is probably stronger than the majority of fiberglass boats of it's size. Good quality plywood when encapsulated with glass and epoxy in incredibly tough and abrasive resistant. The shape of the bottom also adds to its strength and most impacts would be glancing blows.

I don't think it would be holed by any object it hit at hull speed. Also the chine runners offer added protection. If a lot of gravel and rocks are being encountered one could use an additional layer of polyester cloth added to the bottom along with carbon powder which is done on cedar strip canoes that run whitewater. I have seen these bottoms and they don't even scratch when encountering sharp rocks! The first one I saw was built by a woman one winter and she regularly ran rock-filled rivers all the next summer. She is a professional guide in Northern Saskatchewan.

One could also add extra runners along the bottom if going up on gravel beaches all the time. I have thought of an iron shoe, but any good hardwood will work and is what is on my boat. 

So there are lots of options for adding strength to the bottom, ranging from thicker plywood to additional layers of cloth to a sacrificial keel strip. All of this extra weight will make it slower probably and more hassle to move around on land, but may be worthwhile in certain locations.

That's another nice thing about wood. You can refine it to your own needs:-)

Reading Sven's comments about Paradox was really enlightening for me.

Cheers, Nels