From: "Jeffery Please" <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Steel?
Date: Sun, 28 Dec 2003 22:31:11 -0000


I have tried to answer you questions here.

I live in RI, rocky cold coast, ever hear of fog?? this is a coastal cruiser?? correct??

golf is boring, whats a white stick going to do for

Don't go sailing in fog unless you what you are doing. You can still be run down and sunk by another boat, even if you are sailing a steel one.

The white stick is for people on land with poor eye sight. In fog afloat one could use a long one to find out if anyone is out there.

Agreed, golf is bloody boring.

I think the whole thing about PARADOX is that she can be built by anyone with low woodworking skills.

agreed

Steel, although stronger would be over kill adding extra design problems.

please elaborate...

If someone won't build a PARADOX in wood due to their perceived lack of skill, do you think they would come to the conclusion that it would be easier to build in steel.

I for one would think twice before attempting to build a boat in steel although I have built things in steel before.

Remember, the chine runners are shown shaped for a reason. Would you make that shape in steel or wood?

I can do either without any problem... In fact if I have to chisel it by hand, then so be it.

Are you saying you would carve the runners out of steel.

Welding bits of angle iron onto the chines are not exactly the same as the shaped runners.

Welding rods must be cheap in the States if you can use them as a filler

Round tubing at the chine with the sheet steel welded to it would leave a round edge, use some filler to fair in the runners?

No, I would let the weld consume the joint and grind it fair

Sounds like bad practice to me. If you used wooden runners how would you protect their undersides?

Wooden deck fitted to steel hull? Even the professionals can get it wrong.

ever hear of a bruce roberts steel boat?? seems to me hes got it down

I think BR designs large displacement boats with steel decks.

Matt has sailed PARADOX thousands of miles and the boat is good for lots more.

Speaks for itself

An extra layer of cloth on the bottom is all you need.

What type? and for what??

This is only added for peace of mind for those that have no faith in their sailing or navigation ability.

After hitting a coral reef Dave and Mindy repaired LC's bottom without to much effort.

I might add that if Matt thought that steel was a better bet don't you think he would have built his PARADOX in that material.

Jeff UK