From: "Jack Gardiner" <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 28 Dec 2003 18:05:53 -0500
Subject: Re: Steel?

I have tried to answer your questions here.

I live in RI, rocky cold coast, ever hear of fog?? this is a coastal cruiser?? correct??

Golf is boring, what's a white stick going to do for.

Don't go sailing in fog unless you what you are doing. You can still be run down and sunk by another boat, even if you are sailing a steel one.

The white stick is for people on land with poor eyesight. In fog afloat one could use a long one to find out if anyone is out there.

Agreed, golf is bloody boring.

Gonna stay away from the personal insults...

I think the whole thing about PARADOX is that she can be built by anyone with low woodworking skills.

Agreed.

Steel, although stronger would be overkill adding extra design problems.

Please elaborate...

If someone won't build a PARADOX in wood due to their perceived lack of skill, do you think they would come to the conclusion that it would be easier to build in steel.

I am planning to build one in wood and one in steel, perhaps 2 in steel or wood, have not yet decided

It is not for a lack of skill, how do you base this assumption?

I for one would think twice before attempting to build a boat in steel although I have built things in steel before.

I'm thinking more than twice, giving it a lot of thought.

Remember, the chine runners are shown shaped for a reason. Would you make that shape in steel or wood?

I can do either without any problem, in fact if I have to chisel it by hand, then so be it.

Are you saying you would carve the runners out of steel?

There is more than one way to skin a cat, I can fill with brazing rod if need be.

Welding bits of angle iron onto the chines are not exactly the same as the shaped runners.

You would weld bits of angle iron on to make up gaps?? Are you a professional welder?

Welding rods must be cheap in the States if you can use them as a filler.

I do not use rods as filler, that's for drug using slackers that need to make up for lost production on the line in the shipyard. Perhaps you have heard of wire feed, it comes in rolls, very cheap for the amount of weld you get.

Round tubing at the chine with the sheet steel welded to it would leave a round edge, use some filler to fair in the runners?

No, I would let the weld consume the joint and grind it fair.

Sounds like bad practice to me. If you used wooden runners how would you protect their undersides?

Again, are you a professional welder? Sounds like?

Wooden deck fitted to steel hull? Even the professionals can get it wrong.

Ever hear of a Bruce Roberts steel boat? Seems to me he's got it down.

I think BR designs large displacement boats with steel decks.

Not all of them, besides it's not set in stone... I may go with composite, or S&G.

Matt has sailed PARADOX thousands of miles and the boat is good for lots more.

Speaks for itself.

An extra layer of cloth on the bottom is all you need.

What type? And for what?

This is only added for peace of mind for those that have no faith in their sailing or navigation ability.

After hitting a coral reef Dave and Mindy repaired LC's bottom without too much effort.

Are you saying Dave and Mindy need a white stick too?

I might add that if Matt thought that steel was a better bet don't you think he would have built his PARADOX in that material.

I have no idea what pushed Matt to plywood, cost, ease of use, nothing wrong with plywood, nothing wrong with steel. Perhaps Matt isn't a welder or does not want a steel boat.

It's not for everybody, we are discussing it because this is a paradox builders forum, we are discussing building a paradox, it just happens that we are talking about one in steel. Some find it interesting and contribute to the conversation in a civil laid back fashion with positive input. Some do not.

Jack