From: "Jeffery Please" <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Steel?
Date: Mon, 29 Dec 2003 02:10:55 -0000


Welding bits of angle iron onto the chines are not exactly the same as the
shaped runners. you would weld bits of angle iron on to make up gaps?? are
you a professional welder?? 

I did not say to use angle iron to make up gaps but to use as the chine
runners as put forward in a posting some time back when the use of steel to
build a PARADOX came up.

I presume the chine runners on your boat would be fabricated from sheet
steel of carved from the solid (heavens). You might even make them from wood
and bolt them in place.

Sounds like bad practice to me. If you used wooden runners how would you
protect their undersides?

again, your a professional welder?? sounds like?? 

I am not a welder but I worked in the drawing office of a large engineering
company developing out drawings so that the sheet metal workers and welders
could make the parts easier. 

I had nearly 12 years in that department after which I contracted out to
local boat firms in their drawing offices working on boat as well as
hovercraft structures.

Mostly these firms worked in steel or aluminium. I have even drawn
illustrations for a book on aluminium construction.

My older brother is a professional welder fabricator in the aircraft and
marine industry, mostly marine now.


After hitting a coral reef Dave and Mindy repaired LC's bottom without to
much effort.

are you saying Dave and Mindy need a white stick too??

Dave and Mindy have sailed thousands of miles in LITTLE CRUISER, so the odd
ding is to be expected.

Having a boat made of steel knowing it could take a lot of knocks could lead
to sloppy seamanship.

Try not to put words into my mouth.

I might add that if Matt thought that steel was a better bet don't you think
he would have built his PARADOX in that material.

I have no idea what pushed Matt to plywood, cost, ease of use, nothing wrong
with plywood, nothing wrong with steel. perhaps Matt isnt a welder, or does
not want a steel boat.

If Matt had designed PARADOX for steel construction the outcome could have
been a different boat due to steel building techniques.

Before starting to build your boat in steel do your sums. Will the centre of
gravity be the same. How will you stop flat spots between frames caused by
heat when welding. 

Will there be any water traps which will cause rust later.  

How will you build the hull, developed side and bottom panels or mark and
cut out the panels once the frame have been set up.

There are a lot of details in PARADOX that would be a sod to make in steel,
some would need wooden liners. The mast area for one.

Its not for everybody, we are discussing it because this is a paradox
builders forum, we are discussing building a paradox, it just happens that
we are talking about one in steel, some find it interesting and contribute
to the conversation in a civil laid back fashion with positive input. some
do not.

I agree. If you go ahead and build a steel PARADOX and it is every bit as
good and as stable as a plywood build, I will be one of the first to
congratulate you.

I might add that I have designed and built a number of small boats in GRP,
GRP/FOAM, strip plank and plywood. 

I prefer plywood for speed of build and weight/strength.

Jeff UK


Yahoo! Groups Links

*	To visit your group on the web, go to:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
  
*	To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
  
*	Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.