From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Steel?
Date: Mon, 29 Dec 2003 08:19:49 -0000

Well Jack, seems like you've certainly stirred up some controversy.
Could be you're a troll? I'll give you the benefit of the doubt.

I personally think that a Paradox design, built in steel would be a
horrible mistake. This design was drawn and calculated for
plywood/epoxy/glass composite. Matt has suggested that anyone is free
to construct to the Paradox lines with whichever material one desires,
but he also warns that the calculations for centers and different
material weight be figured. I fear that some neophytes may go off half
cocked and arrive at a vessel which tarnishes the design. 

Steel is a wonderful material, as is aluminium, carbon, kevlar, etc.,
etc... All of these materials have been used to build notable boats
and aircraft, but this is inconsequential to the very fact that the
design was drawn for plywood/epoxy/glass composite; incidentally, also
used to build some aircraft... so what?

Seems to me that the use of sheetmetal for the sides would require
quite extensive framing, perhaps (5) flatbar longitudinals per side.
That's a lot of welding and associated distortion, requiring extensive
fairing. These flatbar longitudinals would dramatically reduce the
interior volume available for stowage. Same goes for a steel bottom.
Of course, all these longitudinals will require blasting and
finishing, and will inevitably catch water. You could have a
commercial outfit spray in a uniform polyurethane foam over the
longitudinals, which would require a ceiling installation (more
weight), but then when the sheetmetal gets dented, as it will (after
all, this is the same gauge as autobodies), you will not be able to
repair/re-fair with a welder unless the interior surface is exposed.
Yup, rip out all of that ceiling and foam, and then be prepared to
reblast and reprime the repaired area before reinsulating and receiling.
Foam board insulation (and buoyancy, you'll need a lot) could be
employed, but that will only serve to catch water (condensation)
against the steel, eventually leading to the need for repairs. Foam
board would also lack the structural qualities of sprayed polyurethane
foam. 

Steel is only as good as the finish protecting it. How would you deal
with the exposure of the steel due to bouncing off rocks, grounding on
engine blocks, even just regular beaching on sand. The Paradox design
shows an 18mm plywood bottom, sheathed with (3) layers of 24oz roving.
This construction is darn near bulletproof, and extremely simple to
repair any cosmetic damage.

I personally love metal for constructing heavy displacement monohulls
of around 30' and larger. For multihulls, I prefer cedar or foam cored
epoxy/fabric. For the Paradox and other designs, I prefer to stick
with the design materials. As you have not even received your Paradox
plans yet, how is it that you feel qualified to speculate on an
alternate material, let alone the designed geometry? Have you
considered consulting with a yacht designer regarding tiny steel
boats? Have you any experience with steel boat building? Why don't you
look for a more suitable design for your aspirations for a tiny steel
boat?

The Paradox design is proven. This is the culmination of years of real
world testing. Al says it best: "WHY TURN A SILK PURSE INTO A SOW'S
EAR?" 

Jack, learn from those who have gone before you. There is a wealth of
knowledge on this board, and within the boatbuilding community. Wait
for your plans. Study them thoroughly. Read through the archives. At
last, should you decide to proceed with your ill advised route of
steel construction, DO THE CALCULATIONS. I won't say that it can't be
done, I just question the motivation. Steel construction would not
produce a better boat.

DC