From: "Jack Gardiner" <alex29@cox.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Dec 2003 09:32:11 -0500
Subject: Re: Steel?

Well Jack, seems like you've certainly stirred up some controversy. Could be you're a troll? I'll give you the benefit of the doubt.

Oh, Thank you so very much, Im not a Troll, and besides that, what proof do you need from me to prove im not? id be glad to provide it.

I personally think that a Paradox design, built in steel would be a horrible mistake. This design was drawn and calculated for plywood/epoxy/glass composite. Matt has suggested that anyone is free to construct to the Paradox lines with whichever material one desires, but he also warns that the calculations for centers and different material weight be figured. I fear that some neophytes may go off half cocked and arrive at a vessel which tarnishes the design.

Im not "half cocked" ok?? I understand the problems with using steel, it happens to be my choice of material.

Steel is a wonderful material, as is aluminium, carbon, kevlar, etc., etc... All of these materials have been used to build notable boats and aircraft, but this is inconsequential to the very fact that the design was drawn for plywood/epoxy/glass composite; incidentally, also used to build some aircraft... so what?

yea so what, i dont think that has much to do with me bulding a steel paradox

Seems to me that the use of sheetmetal for the sides would require quite extensive framing, perhaps (5) flatbar longitudinals per side. That's a lot of welding and associated distortion, requiring extensive fairing.

that is not the way im approching this

These flatbar longitudinals would dramatically reduce the interior volume available for stowage. Same goes for a steel bottom. Of course, all these longitudinals will require blasting and finishing, and will inevitably catch water.

encapsulated in epoxy it will?? really...

again im not using flatbar...

You could have a commercial outfit spray in a uniform polyurethane foam over the longitudinals, which would require a ceiling installation (more weight)

I wont be doing that

, but then when the sheetmetal gets dented, denting 12 gua steel, well, if its plywood its going to be in just as bad of shape if not worse, both hit with same force,... hrmmm

as it will (after all, this is the same gauge as autobodies),

they make cars with 12 gua?

you will not be able to repair/re-fair with a welder unless the interior surface is exposed. Yup, rip out all of that ceiling and foam, and then be prepared to reblast and reprime the repaired area before reinsulating and receiling. Foam board insulation (and buoyancy, you'll need a lot) could be employed, but that will only serve to catch water (condensation) against the steel, eventually leading to the need for repairs. Foam board would also lack the structural qualities of sprayed polyurethane foam.

Epoxy seals, yada yada yada

Steel is only as good as the finish protecting it. How would you deal with the exposure of the steel due to bouncing off rocks, grounding on engine blocks, even just regular beaching on sand. The Paradox design shows an 18mm plywood bottom, sheathed with (3) layers of 24oz roving.

YUCK, roving, BIAX

This construction is darn near bulletproof, and extremely simple to repair any cosmetic damage.

so is steel

Ive heard that a white stick can stop these things from happening

I personally love metal for constructing heavy displacement monohulls of around 30' and larger. For multihulls, I prefer cedar or foam cored epoxy/fabric. For the Paradox and other designs, I prefer to stick with the design materials. As you have not even received your Paradox plans yet, how is it that you feel qualified to speculate on an alternate material, let alone the designed geometry? Have you considered consulting with a yacht designer regarding tiny steel boats? Have you any experience with steel boat building? Why don't you look for a more suitable design for your aspirations for a tiny steel boat?

I have and im here.

The Paradox design is proven. This is the culmination of years of real world testing. Al says it best: "WHY TURN A SILK PURSE INTO A SOW'S EAR?"

Al is the last word in boats?? I dont think so.

Jack, learn from those who have gone before you. There is a wealth of knowledge on this board, and within the boatbuilding community. Wait for your plans. Study them thoroughly. Read through the archives. At last, should you decide to proceed with your ill advised route of steel construction, DO THE CALCULATIONS. I won't say that it can't be done, I just question the motivation. Steel construction would not produce a better boat.

We shall see.

Thanks DC for the vote confidence, thank you group for wading thru the posts.... Ive learned alot about this boat community. It has opened my eyes to alot of the parameters and personalites I had not anticipated, however I feel this topic in this forum will not go on in a positive direction publicly, therefore I am taking it private. Thanks to all who participated.

Jack

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
ADVERTISEMENT
 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Yahoo! Groups Links

a.. To visit your group on the web, go to:
http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
  
b.. To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
  
c.. Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.