From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 11:45:33 -0000
Subject: Re: Alternative building materials

Hi Bill.

Sorry, it looks like you must think that I have perhaps accused you of heresy. I really don't believe that there is one official view to which we must all respect.

The fact of the matter is, the Paradox design is what it is. I know, cliche. If I were to commit to memory one of your books, rearrange a few things, sell the rearrangement to a publisher, and use your title, would you be offended? Would your readers be defensive, indeed outraged? No, it would never happen, but if it did? 

Kjell is building in foam core composite. Jeff is building in stitch and glue plywood. There has been talk of an aluminium boat, and now a steel boat. I'm sure that there are some folks who have contemplated other methods of construction. Many design details have been changed by many builders and there will never, ever be two alike examples of Paradox, or even an exact example of the original. Matt has written that the design is intended to be a guide, rather than a manual. He has interjected that a calculation be undertaken to arrive at the weights and centers for whichever material or method is chosen. This is far more generous than most designers faced with the bastardization of their work. 

Like it or not, a design or a class is seldom judged as favorably for its successes, as judged harshly for its failures. The early multihull industry is a good example of this. A black sheep will sully the herd.

I believe in this design, perhaps more fervently than some would wish. The Paradox design is what it is. My opinion in this respect is mine alone. If someone chooses to assert that this design could be improved by means of material or design alterations, am I not also afforded the right to disagree, even strenuously?

In the end, time will tell. Kjell may well produce a beautiful version of the design in his foam composite example, and Jeff may well produce a beautiful version in stitch and glue. Someday, someone will surely build a stunning version in bare aluminium, and Jack may do the same with steel. Andrew has displayed Zero for our enjoyment, and he freely admits to departing from the design in several areas. There is Zoe, and Little Jim, and Whisper, RHXII, and Petite Lady. Which is the real Paradox? The first. All others have and will either aspire to the first, or depart from the design to be ultimately judged on their own. 

When does a departure from the design justify the recognition of it being a different design? Is it an unspecified material? A drastic change to the geometry of the hull, deck, or rig? The displacement, beam, length, draft, CE, CLR, SA? The incorporation of an anchor locker on the after deck? 

What is an improvement? To whom? Everyone? Mind if I disagree, or must I tow the line of "open mind", however ill-informed (yes, an opinion)? Would this be heresy? To what official tenet? How strong is too strong, indeed how weak? How flexible is too flexible, how stiff is too stiff? How are such assertions quantified?

We have a wonderful basis from which to begin. The Paradox design. The design, if followed, will produce a predictable outcome, an outcome which I hope is what attracts potential builders to the design. It, like all boats, is a compromise. How is a compromise improved or optimized? What is sacrificed to accomplish this supposed improvement?

Last thing I want to do is leave everyone with the impression of the second coming of the Paradox Soup Nazi. Feel free to do whatever you wish. I may disagree with you, but ultimately, it's your boat. 

Respectfully,
DC