From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 31 Dec 2003 00:55:20 -0000
Subject: Re: anchor locker

Hi Bill.

I have actually considered the possibility of a Lewmar ventilation hatch between blkds 1 and 2. You bring up an interesting point regarding access through the plexiglass. I suppose that a Lewmar portlight could be installed in the plexi, provided a level pad is provided, in and out. 

I've considered a raceway under the deck, from the bow, to an area adjacent to the companionway, fashioned from gray waterpipe, but it's just more weight and complexity, perhaps weakening the deck, or encroaching into the accomodations.

Still, I like the idea of standing (or crouching) through the companionway hatch, maintaining a more constant state of trim, and being able to handle as much as possible from this position. The biggest problem as I see it, is the yuloh preventing a fair run from fwd chock to after cleat. Even if this is overcome, or withstood, one does still need to be on deck to retrieve the anchor when weighing.

DC

From: "William  Longyard" <longyard@i...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 14:57:12 -0500
Subject: anchor locker

DC,
We must think along parallel lines.  One of the things that attacts me to the Paradox is its design feature which PREVENTS you from moving around much.  I've always had problems with my small boats in maintaining sail trim due to the need to move (like everyone else who skippers small boats.)  The Paradox prevents you from encountering this problem.

As far as dealing with the chain / rode, I wonder if you have considered a split forward window?  Let one side hinge outwards so that you can reach through and do some some manhanding on the forward deck without actually going out on it?  If I were to employ a sea anchor on the boat that's how I'd want to deploy it.  It ought to also make dealing with a metal hook easier.

Yes, I'd drain through the mast trunk, but I'd also put a strainer in-line where I could get to it.

Bill Longyard