From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 20:30:55 -0500
Subject: Re: anchor lockers and Anchoring

An interesting thread DC, and some novel ideas as well. When building Zoe I couldn't imagine keeping a smelly old anchor in the designated anchor locker and wondered if maybe Matt had just never been in an area where the bottom smelled like an old sewer. I bit the bullet,so to speak, and didn't install an anchor well, electing to give his idea a try. I purchased a couple of canvas ice bags and stowed a Delta Quick Set and 75 foot of 3/8 inch braided anchor line in each. One is stowed in the anchor locker as per the plans, the other in the aft strb locker under galley gear.

Thus far I have yet to have a problem with the exception of leaving anchor at Cedar Key with a current setting me into the piers and having to drop the loaded bag on the afterdeck and scull like hell to clear the pier, at which time I fell off and got underway. As the sail filled and Zoe heeled to port the bag and anchor went overboard just as I was reaching for it. Of course I had it cleated to an after cleat and if the anchor had set we would be swept into the piers. Leaving Zoe to sail herself, I reeled in the anchor as fast as I could and avoided a lot of embarrassment in front of all the fishermen on the pier. It would have really been nice to have some tall fiddle rails around the after deck at that time and I am still thinking of retro fitting some.

The anticipated smell has yet to rear it's ugly head. The anchor is easy to grab and deploy and after watching how "Matt does it" while in Tampa with him, I have had no problems sailing the anchor out (more about that later).

Some things to consider before installing a forward well: I personally enjoy hoisting sail and getting ready to leave before weighing anchor. For one thing it is easy while you're head to wind to get the sail up and tidy all the lines away without fear of things getting out of hand. When I first started sailing Zoe I soon found out that the last place I wanted to be with the sail up was on the fore deck. Your weight has the effect of throwing the sail from one side to which ever side you chose to return aft on and should you be falling off and sailing as you go aft on the weather side you can pretty much be assured that just as you get aft of the mast the sail will jibe so no matter what you do, you wind up being under a full sail on the lee side deck. Very Exciting! Don't ask me how I know :-) So, if you cleat your anchor forward you pretty much have to retrieve it and bring it aft before raising sail and you are faced with raising sail underway. I've done this too and some time even avoided going aground or running into anything because we got away on the wrong tack (how'd that happen).

What I learned from Matt was to set my anchor from the stern and then while leaving the rode cleated aft, carry the line forward and put it through the chock so the boat will lay head to wind. When you're ready to get underway, get your sail up and put the helm amidships.While leaving the line cleated aft, haul the rode in from the cockpit (hatch) and stow it in the bag as you go. Make sure your main sheet is let out so you won't be sailing. The boat will naturally tack back and forth and when you get up short wait until you are on the tack you want to get away on and flip the rode out of the chock and retrieve it from the side. You will find that leaning over to get it will heel the boat and afford you the time to clean the anchor as you bring it aboard and stow it. All the while your Paradox has slowly drifted along, beam to the wind with her sail almost full out on the preferred tack. Haul in the sheet and off you go. 

This technique would work very well with a stern locker as DC has mentioned and there is good space below deck aft and over to either side.

I've rambled on long enough for this post but have more to say about anchoring and sailing the anchor out in a blow aboard a Paradox. The above method works well unless the winds are really getting up or when you awake to find the winds have swung around and you find yourself hanging just off a lee shore. More to follow.

Tailwinds

Glen