From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: anchor lockers and Anchoring
Date: Wed, 31 Dec 2003 07:53:21 -0000


Thanks for sharing Glen. Lots of great points. I admit to having a real aversion to stowing ground tackle below. When I was in Mexico, I seldom had a dirty rode. Up here in the Pac NW, we have some muck that would choke Fat Bastard. Nasty. And it sticks like grease.

You have re-affirmed for me, my determination to stay off of the deck as much as possible. Upon pondering the problems, I have refined my earlier thoughts.

On my last boat, I installed stern anchor rollers on the bow, to serve as captive, gentle chocks. They were intended to be used for lying to a parachute anchor. In conjunction with the chocks, I used a snatchblock on a line lead back to the quarter (both sides). This line, running on the rode, was to be used to optimize the lead angle of the parachute rode. The dedicated parachute rode lived in a centerline rode locker, so it was of course handled on the bow. Only the lead angle was adjustable, via the snatchblock/lanyard in the cockpit.

Now, say aboard a Paradox, there are these same stern anchor rollers (or similar) installed on the bow (cleats are aft, nearer the cabin). Say that the anchor and rode are stowed in a small locker on the afterdeck, and the rode is lead forward from this locker, through the anchor roller, and then back to the stowed anchor. Between the anchor roller and the anchor swivel or shackle, there is a lanyard spliced to a block, which runs along the anchor rode. This lanyard would have been the one to adjust the parachute anchor rode on my last boat, but aboard this Paradox, it is used to handle the anchor rode entirely from the companionway.

To anchor, the hook is lowered from the companionway position. The lanyard would be slack at this stage, so the rode would run from the anchor roller on the bow. When the hook is sufficiently set, with the desired scope, the rode is cleated aft, perhaps even within the rode locker. The (retrieval?) lanyard is left slack, but is secured to the boat, aft.

Now, to weigh anchor, the boat is readied to get under way. The rode is brought in from the companionway position, the rode rolling through the roller on the bow. As the hook breaks free from the bottom, the sailor looks for a marker to pass the roller, indicating that there is 3-4 meters of rode still down. The retrieval lanyard is hauled so that the anchor rode can be grasped. The anchor is then retrieved and stowed in it's locker, along with whatever length of chain is used. Any loose rode, and the retrieval lanyard is then stowed in the locker. No need to leave the companionway position. 

Practice might indicate that in shallow water and calm conditions, the lanyard might be hauled immediately, so that the anchor could quickly be brought aboard, followed by the bight of rode.

Alternatively, a gray, plastic waterpipe raceway could certainly be installed under the deckbeams, from a sheave box forward at a hawse hole, to a sheave box aft, within the anchor/rode locker. The raceway need not be straight, just a gentle curve. A drain could be fitted to the scupper plumbing (assuming the scupper plumbing drains near the waterline). This would provide for a less cluttered deck.

The afterdeck anchor/rode locker should be biased to the port side, rather than the stbd side, this because it is reasonable to think that the sail rig would be less of an obstruction than the yuloh. If the rode is lead fore and aft, on deck, presumably the rig would be in the deployed position, rather than stowed on deck. The yuloh naturally remains on deck a great deal more of the time, and thus presents more of an obstruction.

The anchor/rode locker would drain into the vent trunk with a pipe or hose which terminates as low as possible to prevent water intrusion during a roll.

As Bill reminded me, a sea anchor of some sort may be desirable. Simply replace the anchor with the parachute, on the same rode (**sans chain**). The retrieval lanyard may be used to adjust the rode lead to achieve the desired result of minimal leeway, with minimal fore reaching. All from the companionway. Attention to chafe would be decreased both by initial gentle surface preparations, and then during use, let out the rode a foot every hour or so, so that the chafe is never concentrated on one portion of the rode for very long.

OK. The problems are: complexity, weight, expense, additional tackle still handled by conventional means, ?

The benefits: handling entirely from the companionway, ground tackle available for immediate deployment, primary anchor separated from accomodations, drains overboard, sano installation, ?

Lot to be said for the simplicity of your method, Glen.

Geez, did I really write that much??? Sorry folks.

DC