From: "William  Longyard" <longyard@ix.netcom.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 1 Jan 2004 10:44:21 -0500
Subject: Re: Mast

Glen,
Tutorials on construction are always worth while.  I'd be glad to see you do this.

Bill Longyard
    

From: Glen Maxwell 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Thursday, January 01, 2004 9:35 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Mast

If you want to see how very easy it is to make a birds mouth spar you should make a short sample say five feet. The mast literally builds itself when cut. I have been thinking about doing a tutorial on the process by documenting the making of a walking stick, some thing that is small, easy to handle and can be used after the lesson. I'm thinking lots of pictures and explanations on making the taper jig ect. If there is any interest I go to work on the lesson plan.

Tailwinds

Glen
    

From: David LeBlanc 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Thursday, January 01, 2004 3:42 AM
Subject: RE: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Mast

Larry Pardey describes how to build a box girder mast in one of the "Seraffyn" books, including how to build up the inside at places where you attach things like winches and other fittings. IIRC, he talks about timber selection, specifies 12:1 or longer scarphs for timbers, talks about taper and rounding off (he just rounds off the leading edges and leaves the aft edges square, but the aft edges can be rounded too). He also puts a roll of crumpled aluminimum foil all up and down the inside as the biggest rader reflector around!

There are definitely other sources for information on building a wooden mast. Bud Macintosh's book might be one.

If you're a really good woodworker and don't mind a brush with insanity, the pinacle of the mast maker's art is the bird's mough - many long skinny bits (like barrel staves) with just the right rabits in each side all come together to make a mast... It's got to be maddening if you've never done it before!

David LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA
    

From: Jack Gardiner [mailto:alex29@cox.net]
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wednesday, December 31, 2003 20:01
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Mast

Yes, 

  Some dimensions, type of wood, etc, simple, elaborate.. whats the norm for what works... for this type, since its winter, spending some time on it wouldnt really matter, hexagon taper?? octgon? round?? masts not being my forte, very curious, and its not pressing as ive tons of other considerations. also before building I am looking at scaling to a larger hull, and looking for data, the mast is part of that and as the boat grows so does its masts requirements. looking for some insight. thanks

Jack


Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
ADVERTISEMENT
     

Yahoo! Groups Links

  a.. To visit your group on the web, go to:
  http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
    
  b.. To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
  paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
    
  c.. Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.