From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Jan 2004 11:53:10 -0500
Subject: Re: anchor lockers and Anchoring

More anchor talk:

In practice I have found that the port side is the cluttered side, sail up or down. If it's up the boom is so low that it is awkward to get under it and if it's down the whole affair covers everything on the port side deck including the stern cleat. It is to heavy a mass to just move about and don't forget that it is captive by the tack fitting. The starboard side is only cluttered by the yuloh which is light and easy to toss over to the port side on top of the sail between the sail and cabin where it will stay put if it gets in your way. The yuloh has never been a problem while anchoring or getting underway. I have had to relocate a couple of times after anchoring and stowing the sail and would not want to have to deal with the anchor rode under it in those cases. Because of the sail the starboard side is my favored side for docking, retrieving the hook ect. and I am ever vigilant to try and plan ahead to ensure I can get away on the strb tack if at all possible.

I would not want to make the aft deck flat but I have thought about some fiddle rails installed in such a way as to provide a box for dropping the anchor and rode into until I can get around to cleaning it but maybe some bungee cord stretched between the after cleats is a simpler solution. The after deck is a very nice place to sit and almost a must if you have guests aboard.

A bow roller would be nice and the stern rollers DC has talked of using on the bow would probably do the trick well. I built in an anchor rode fairlead and have been very pleased with it. I noticed in all the pictures of Paradox that she has a fairlead but no mention of it is on the plans. From past experience I don't like to hang on a cleat as the rode chafes on the deck edge and the boat sails around to much. Having a centerline fairlead helps dampen this somewhat. I have been working on a photo tutorial on how I installed mine and will upload the pictures to the files section.

As for a sea anchor, David Bolduc posted a source on e-bay some time ago in the microcruiser group and I purchased one ($15 if I remember right) and am very pleased with it although I have not been able to test it yet because I have not been in deep enough water with any real wind. I will pass on results as soon as I can. It is a six foot diameter chute in new but outdated condition. My strategy for use is to attach a line with a thimble to the bow eye before leaving on a trip where I might need it and leading the rode up through the fair lead and aft to the stern cleat where it is made fast for the trip. It rests on deck under the yuloh and the after end also has a thimble on it to which I attach the 100 foot sea anchor rode with swivel. The sea anchor depth is controlled by a float attached to the opening in the top of the chute and a polypropylene retrieval line (it floats) is attached to the float and brought back to the stern cleat. So the whole affair is set and retrieved from the hatch. Contrary to what you may think, sea anchors are very easy to retrieve once you pull in on the line because it collapses the chute and then it is like pulling in a wad of clothing. DC, I'm trying to grasp the need for another line to control the angle of deployment. My experience is with mulltihulls and I have never had any problems with them lying head to wind. This may not be the case with monohulls.

Forgive me for once again I have been verbose but there is a lot of subject matter to discuss and we have only scratched the surface.

Tailwinds

Glen

---
Outgoing mail is certified Virus Free.
Checked by AVG anti-virus system (http://www.grisoft.com).
Version: 6.0.550 / Virus Database: 342 - Release Date: 12/10/2003