From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: parachute anchor
Date: Thu, 01 Jan 2004 17:41:27 -0000

Hi Glen.

I've had the opportunity to test a couple of the 6' surplus chutes. I think that they are like a mule, used to drag out the main chute for cargo drops. But then, you are the flyboy, so I defer to you.

On one of the chutes, I re-spliced the shrouds and wound up with the chute collapsing and filling, collapsing and filling. I think the shrouds ended up too short. On the second chute, I re-spliced the shrouds again, but with particular attention paid to keeping them as long as possible. This chute worked like a dream, never once collapsing. I used a swivel on both.

I kept the good chute in a little bag, with the shrouds in a slip hitch chain (Swedish mountaineer's hitching) for immediate deployment. This was more of a "to be tested in real conditions" type chute, as my main parachute was a 12' ParaTech. I ended up selling the little chute, and now I am kicking myself.

On multihulls, the parachute is lead off the bow, on the centerline, though I have heard from two people that a slightly off center lead softens the pitch associated with coming over the crest. Aboard a mono hull, the boat is usually heaved to, before deploying the chute. A slick of water is caused by the hull, which ends up to windward of the boat. The effect is similar to deploying an oilbag to windward (the boat having more windage, drifts down from the bag). When the conditions get really creepy, or if the boat tends not to heave to well, the parachute can be deployed, but maintaining the same attitude to the wind. Thus, a line with a snatchblock must be used to drag the lead aft, else the boat would be head to wind. A mono in a head to wind position lacks the protective slick set up by the turbulance of the stalled keel/drifting hull. Usually, the parachute lead can be adjusted to provide for minimal leeway, with only slight fore reaching, plus, the slick caused by the parachute can also calm the water to windward of the boat. At this point, all sail may be dropped if the conditions warrant.

I've never considered using a floatline on the apex of a chute, on the reasoning that it could foul the chute. I've heard of some people using a float to support a parachute on a rode which consisted partly of a length of chain. I once crewed aboard an albacore boat, who's owner/skipper watched a large fishing boat get dragged under by a parachute on a chain/cable rode; the parachute was nearly straight down, the swell tried to raise the boat, but the parachute won. They figured the boat went under and basically imploded. I won't used a section of chain on a parachute rode.

Thanks for the very informative notes regarding stbd/port side anchor handling. Back to the stbd side.

DC