From: Ron Eike <reike2@comcast.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 1 Jan 2004 13:11:29 -0500
Subject: Re: Mast

Several years ago I had the opportunity to see a gaff made by a
simolar process. The mandrel was a piece of pvc pipe, tapered at both
ends by cutting gores out of the pipe and cementing it back together.
The next layer was fiberglass, and the outer two layers were of
tubular carbon fiber. The fiberglass was applied first, and the
results sanded. Then both layers of graphite were applied and wet out
in one step. Instead of using squeeges, the layup was wrapped with a
plastic tape.

In this case the pvc pipe made a negligable contribution to the final
strength, but you should get plenty of strength from a spruce core.

Ron                 reike2@comcast.net

--------


From: anonymous
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 1 Jan 2004 11:27:47
Subject: Mast

A subject near and dear to my heart.

While there's nothing at all lacking in the designed mast, I do recall that Matt had initially contemplated a carbon fiber stick. I've been considering something on the line of a composite stick of birdmouth sitka spruce and a carbon fiber sleeve. In essence, the spruce is the permanent mandrel, providing "unidirectional" fiber, and the carbon sleeve provides the minimal hoop strength necessary for this small mast. Fabrication would be really easy. The sleeve would be fitted around the "mandrel", then pulled tight like a "Chinese finger cuff", and then wetted out and squeegeed.

I haven't run any numbers for this, but I think that the differences in weight between the design spec mast and such a composite one, would be neglegable. Indeed, the extra weight aloft would provide a more comfortable motion. I think the only really cool reason to build such a composite mast would be the experience gained, and perhaps some measure of bragging rights.

Here's a link to some sleeves.
http://www.4corthopedic.com/products/fab/braided.htm
Foresee Orthopedic Products : Products : Braided Carbon Sleeves

DC