From: "barnacleid" <w.serjeant@btinternet.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 02 Jan 2004 16:51:44 -0000
Subject: Paradox in rough weather

Thanks Glen and DC for your excellent postings on the deployment of 
rough weather gear.

I've experienced several severe gales at sea around the British Isles 
and two in the Bay of Biscay.  My tactics have been the same, first 
to heave-to, and then as things worsen remove all sail and simply let 
the boat drift sideways down-wind.  Fortunately there has always been 
sufficient sea room for this practice.

I've never used a drogue, as Captain Voss in the Tilikum or Larry 
Pardey in modern times.

There's a good article by Larry at: 
http://www.paraanchor.com/news.sailmag.html

My boats have had a variety of underwater profiles, some with long 
keels, some with fin keels, but none like Paradox, completely flat 
underneath, apart from curvature between bow and transom.

I have a gut feeling that Paradox  could heave-to in the fashion 
described by Larry - that's to reef with minimum sail, then sheet 
hard amidships - lash the tiller a few degrees to leeward.  She may 
then drift back with her slick directly to windward.  If so, the 
slick should protect her.  On the other hand, there may be undue 
force on the rudder occasionally as the boat is thrown off the crest 
of a wave and backwards.

A parachute could be very useful to minimize drift downwind when 
there is a lee shore.

On the other hand, wherever there is sea room, I'm in favour of 
presenting the least resistance to wind and sea, and therefore I 
would opt for heaving-to, lying a-hull and in very severe conditions, 
running downwind, slightly across the seas, not directly before 
them.  To date, I've never had to resort to the latter, and I hope I 
never shall.

If I'm fortunate to build a Paradox, I hope I shall never be in the 
situation where I find myself in a severe gale, or any gale for that 
matter.  One thing that gives me a lot of confidence, however, is 
Paradox's stability.  I think she would be quite safe while lying a-
hull in winds up to force 7.  It would be very uncomfortable, but not 
more than when I in my Hunter 19 -  See 'Small Zeta down channel' for 
Wed. 26:  http://www.btinternet.com/~w.serjeant/logs/log/cruisin.htm

Since Pardox does not have a deep keel, or any real keel for that 
matter, I think she would present little resistance in gale 
conditions while lying a-hull.  The slick to windward should smooth 
seas and prevent them breaking over her.

For anyone who would consider taking Paradox on an ocean voyage, (not 
for me) a temporary small mizzen riding sail, in conjunction with a 
drogue 'a la Voss', (not a parachute) might keep the boat pointed 
into oncoming seas sufficient to provide a slick so that she remains 
relatively dry.  Voss's 'Tilikum' dugout canoe, 30 ' plus, with a 
very narrow beam and having a mizzen, was ideally suited to riding 
gales in this way.

Bill.