From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 2 Jan 2004 23:53:24 +0000
Subject: Re: anchor locker


I agree with not going out on deck. If the sail has been completely 
furled then there is no drive to dig in the anchor. If the sail is still up 
then there is the potential for a number of spectator-amusing 
disasters.

At the moment my anchor is stored in the floor locker. When I 
anchor (which I do quite often) I drop the anchor from the 'cockpit' 
and dig it in under sail. I have a line permanently attached to the 
bow with a snap hook on the aft end. The anchor line is fastened to 
the snap hook with a clove hitch and paid out till we are swinging 
from the bow. The sail can then be furled and the anchor line also 
made fast to the stern cleat, all without leaving the protection of the 
cabin. This has worked well so far, but requires bringing the wet 
and possibly dirty anchor inside the cabin. Thus the desire for an 
anchor well in the aft deck. I have some ideas to try out in the 
spring and will let you all know how they work (or don't).


To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Dec 2003 23:52:49 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: anchor locker


Hi Bill. 

Absolutely correct, the boat must be trimmed to her lines. My problem
is that I am a big guy, at 6"1", 225 lbs. I try to stay low and
centered on small boats. I find that my going forward aboard small
boats can so upset the balance, that I find the boat spinning around,
instead of heading for the intended target. It must look rather silly,
and it sure does throw a wrench in a well thought plan.

I shall try to avoid even climbing on deck, so aft stowage of the
primary anchor and rode is preferred. I hope to be able to lead the
rode up to a bow chock or roller (ala stern anchor roller), and aft to
the anchor for dropping the hook on a whim. If I can't secure the rode
aft, I will likely try to do so on a cleat directly fwd of the cabin.
This, all in the effort to remain as inboard as possible. Other
anchor(s) and rode(s) will be stowed below. 

Have you considered the need for drainage of your rode solution? Would
you just install a drain straight down through the bottom, as the fwd
vent trunk? Perhaps incorporate the rode locker with an additional
vent trunk? I have considered this, and worked out a way to allow for
ventilation and drainage, without allowing too much water ingress in a
roll. Alas, I need to stay off the bow as much as possible, so it is
only a thought at this point. 

DC


Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.