From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 03 Jan 2004 00:00:11 -0000
Subject: Re: Build Manual, Preparations

Thanks for the input Al. 

I know that the tool list may seem awfully expansive, and I agree that the boat can be built with considerably less than I have listed. It was not intended to be a minimal list of tools required, and I am hesitant to compile such a list. What is minimal for one builder will naturally be luxuriously expansive for another. My first boat was built almost entirely with a block plane and a coping saw. Today, I would employ a great many additional tools, for efficiency sake, to build the very same boat.

I think that the biggest problem facing aspiring boatbuilders is the perceived need for a full compliment of tools. It is just not necessary. I still buy tools as I find a need for them, and I've been building boats for over twenty years. Tools don't make the builder. Gain tools as you gain experience, but just START.

There are many other options available for the new builder. While I don't recommend borrowing, it has certainly been done. If a material/mill list is provided, a small shop could be hired to provide parts which could then be laminated, etc. This can be pretty economical, especially if the shop has the materials on hand. Fax a list, and pick up your milled materials in a day or two. It can be mutually beneficial to multiple builders, to plan for multiple purchases, cooperative labor, and shared tools.

While amazing things have been done with a minimal tool chest, it must be acknowledged that a greater number of clamps, and more diverse tools can greatly speed construction and help enable superior quality.
That said, I am anything but a tool whore. I have many quality tools, but none which would fetch me a fortune on Ebay.

Oh yeah... Ebay! Grizzly tools, Harbor Freight, Homier, etc. 
Sorry, I am entirely unaware of the tools sources in the UK. It is important to note that the typical neighborhood hardware store has incredibly high prices. I rarely shop the hardware stores, though if I have dropped something overboard, or broken something, I can be inclined to do so.

DC