From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 3 Jan 2004 19:14:54 +0000
Subject: Re: Build Manual, Preparations

I go along with the idea of splitting the list into essential and desirable. 

From reading these email lists it seems to me that there are two types of participant. Those who like building boats (the majority) and those who want to go boating. I have never wanted to build a boat, but I understood that if a want a Paradox I must build one, so I did. When I was nearly finished someone asked me what boat I was going to build next. This left me confused for a while as I was not going to have time to build another boat, I would be too busy going sailing. 

Since then I have realised that I am in the minority, but this different approach may well affect my attitude to other things. The question of tools is one. My approach was to buy the essential tools at the lowest price. As long as they worked long enough to finish the build then that was great. I have no intention of building another boat they are now rusting slowly in the garage (anyone want to buy a second hand table saw?) If you are a serial builder then good quality tools are an investment and over the years you will accumulate a large variety

I started with a core of the usual hand tools, and added a cordless drill, an angle grinder and a jigsaw specifically for this project. They were all very cheep, and were still working when I finished the build so were of sufficient quality. I also bought a table saw, as advised in Don's articles, but now wish I hadn't bothered.

It is my type of prospective builder that needs to be assured that it is possible to complete without spending more than about 50UKP on tools.

None of this is to be read as my thinking the list is wrong, it is just that I would hate to think we would put anyone off building by giving the wrong impression

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
Date: Sat, 03 Jan 2004 01:21:52 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Build Manual, Preparations

To all. I've scrutinized the suggested tools list due to Al and David's suggestions of excess. I readily agree that the boat can be built without the need for stationary power tools.

What specific tools do you feel to be unnecessary? I don't feel that a minimal tools list would serve each member, though if there is a consensus regarding the unnecessary inclusion of a specific tool or tools, we can remove it from the list.

DC

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.