From: "David LeBlanc" <whisper@oz.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Jan 2004 13:48:01 -0800
Subject: The tools list

I forwarded the tools list to my friend John Welsford, boat designer and builder, who had this reply:

Tools   are an interesting debate and really hinges on a combination of perception of adequate ( tools) which is set as much as anything by advertisers who need to convince the great unwashed that the HAVE TO HAVE said tools to do said job,  the value that a person places upon their own time, and the budget both time and money that is available for the project.
I've looked at the list below, its a long list,  and I must admit that my own workshop would make this look a bit understocked.   But in fact it would be no real inconvenience to have to build the likes of a Paradox with a lot less than what has been listed.  In fact if you have a look in "The New Zealand Backyard Boatbuilder by myself " on page 33 you will see a carrybox containing  enough tools to build most small boats that I can lift and carry with one hand.
My very first biggish boat was a 21 footer and the ONLY power tool that I had was a 3/8 chuck two speed Hitach drill !  And I could carry everything in my toolbox.  I dont recall being slowed down too much for lack of equipment although there were a few times when hand ripsawing long lengths like stringers and the hardwood keelson took me a lot more sweat than I enjoyed.
All the rest comes in the "nice to have " category, and I too have some favourites in there but in reality some of the stuff that I have is really just a distraction and rarely gets used

It is very easy to spend too much on tools, and I'd suggest that if someone was setting up to build on a production basis then the list below might be appropriate,  but otherwise it is just making the owner of the woodworking toolshop rich enough to pay someone else to build his new boat.

Remember that Nelsons Victory among other ships was built entirely with hand tools!

By the way,  I have built at last count 19 boats in about 18 years and am about to start a 12 ton cruiser.

John Welsford.

David LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA