From: "William Longyard" <longyard@ix.netcom.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Sven's New Rudder System
Date: Tue, 6 Jan 2004 22:43:28 -0500

I spoke with Sven over the weekend and asked him to explain the rudder design that he presents in his new book. I have posted a drawing of this design in the Longyard file of the Photo section. Take a look at it, then read this, and you'll understand why I described Sven as the Thomas Edison of small boat designers in my book.

Sven's New Rudder Design:
1. The rudder is mounted on a false transom which itself is hinged to the actual transom. By hinging the false transom, it can be raised 90 degrees up. This provides for A) a "kick up" feature so as to protect the rudder, B) the ability to easily raise the rudder out of the water when riding to a sea anchor. C) the ability to use the rudder area as a "jigger" when riding at sea anchor.
2. The rudder has a short mast "growing" out of it. This A) Acts as a lever handle to raise the rudder B) Allows for the fitting of a sail which when the helm is thrown will help push the boat over to tack C.) Allows for sheeting for self-steering.
3. The trim-tab has a pulley mounted to the top which interacts with a pulley on the rudder. A) If the pulleys are connected with a figure "8" line the trim tab will swing twice as much degree-wise as the rudder. In effect, you get "power steering". B.) With the figure "8" the rudder 'breaks down' like Fowler flaps on an airplane, and adds tremendous power at low speeds (docking) just like an airplane when taking off or landing C. The figure "8" also acts like a drag brake when thrown all the way over to slow the boat down quickly.
4. When the pulley is connected to straight lines that lead into the cabin it can be A) adjusted as a trim tab to balance the point on a point of sail or B) rigged to a sail sheet for self-steering.
5. There is a little (using Sven's term) 'penis' which stick out in front of the mast. This drags along the deck and its friction is used to set the tiller in a desired position (tiller tamer).
6. There is another longer stick mounted flush to the false transom with a line from it into the cabin. This is a friction stick which drags along another stick that comes out perpendicular to the transoms, and is mounted on the actual transom. This A) adjusts the friction of the "kick up", but also allows you to B) set the rudder an angle for more convenient shoal cruising and C) store the transom in the raised position.

Sven said that despite the other illustrations this is the transom configuration he currently plans to use on his new boat. He said in his estimation this is suitable for the Paradox, too.

I'm sorry, but I'm DAMNED impressed by this!

Bill Longyard