From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Double Rudders
Date: Sat, 24 Jan 2004 22:16:12 -0000

Great post Bill.

I agree that unless one were contemplating voyages, a small tillerpilot would be the most practical, though I'd be inclined to fit it longitudinally to the tiller line, rather than athwartships to the tiller. I believe that Glen fit a tiller pilot this way. 

As far as a vane is concerned, two problems to overcome would be mainsheet fouling, and ability to beach the boat as normal. 

The mainsheet issue could be minimised by installing a vane on a cantilever mount, as far aft as possible. Still, I don't think that fouling the sheet would be entirely overcome, merely reduced. I think that the necessity of beaching requires that the water paddle, trimtab, or whatever, must be somehow raised. If a trimtab is used, and it is fastened to the rudder, it must not hinder the rudder from pivoting. As I refer to the rudder "pivoting", I'm referring to it "kicking up".

Perhaps a small horizontally pivoting vane, either rightside up or upside down, coupled to a trimtab incorporating the trailing edge of the lower portion of the rudder, via push/pull cable would work. The push/pull cable would allow use of a small tiller off the stbd side of the trimtab, to allow rudder (and trimtab) pivoting. Of course, the cable would have to be an optimum length to articulate as the rudder pivots, without binding or sustaining damage. If the cable were led to the trimtab from aft of the tab, pivoting would pose little problem, however, pivoting the rudder to the fully inverted attitude may be impossible.

http://cruisenews.net/cgi-bin/windvane/windvane.pl/noframes/#639
Windvane Forum - Message Index

My vote for practicality, would be the smallest available tillerpilot, oriented longitudinally, right next to my elbow. Coupled with the boat's reputed ability to maintain course, I think this solution would be darn near foolproof. I don't think that a wind generator could reasonably be expected to fit on the stern.

DC