From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 24 Jan 2004 23:15:30 +0000
Subject: Re: Double Rudders

Bill,

Anything fitted on the transom is going to cause a fouling problem with the main sheet )probably during an unintentional gybe is a crowded anchorage).

A tiller pilot could easily be fitted inside as Glen has done.

It may be possible to fit a powerful wind vane (not needing a trim tab or paddle) forward of the mast. The tiller rope passes round there anyway.

When I have been out in rough weather I have kept an eye on what was going on, but not needed to make much adjustment (the steering line is usually locked off). In calmer weather, returning from the Isle of Wight for instance, I read a book and check the course every couple of pages. And remember, when Matt was winning the Watertribe Challenge he got some sleep while still sailing. In other words, I feel self steering gear would be a bit OTT.

If you do a lot of motoring it may be a different matter.

When the weather warms up a bit we must get together and you can see what you think yourself.


From: "William Serjeant" <w.serjeant@btinternet.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date sent: Sat, 24 Jan 2004 21:51:09 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Double Rudders
Send reply to: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

Thanks for all the sage advice.  I built a windvane self-steering for my Folksong.  It had a tab on the rudder and was very successful.  I've used the Hasler SP 90 on my Round Britain boat and that was excellent.  My Buccaneer used the Autohelm and that worked perfectly well, the battery being supplied with a Wasp wind generator.

The sort of sailing I envisaged was coastal cruising in UK waters.

I would like to fit a Hiscock type that is directly attached to a trim tab on the rudder, but how to do this on Paradox's rudder I cannot fathom since it folds upwards.

Hence my questions.

I know some windvane operated devices can be mounted to one side, but the ones I've looked at are all too large and heavy.

The lightest and most suitable would be the Navik, but that would need to be mounted outside the rudder, and because the rudder folds up, I can't see how it will work.

I'm not partial to the continuous whirring sound of the Autohelm, therefore I would prefer a windvane steering.

Cheers,
Bill.



Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.