From: Glen Maxwell <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 1 Feb 2004 07:41:40 -0500
Subject: Re: Looking for some info

Hi Jack, 

I concur with all that Al has just said and would only add that my forward bin sides wanted to pull away from the edge of the water tank tops in the middle. To fix that I fitted some angle alum. pieces to capture the middle and also support it there. I used west epoxy in my water tanks and have for years. I have noticed no ill effects [aside from this twitching, of course :o)]. Very good idea about the bottom shelf on the sides aft and I will retrofit them to Zoe. I have got things wet in that area also. You will want to think about using shallow plastic trays to store your canned goods in so as to keep them from rusting. Twice my water tank tops leaked and that is where the majority of my water problems came from. It is easy to track salt water aboard while getting in and out so I use an old towel folded in half on the afterdeck to dry my feet on. As for the water tank lids, I made a tool to properly tighten them and now I have no problem. If someone will remind me later I will post a drawing of the tool, it is basically a stick with 1/2 inch dowels glued in each end which fit into the recesses of the lids and allow you to tighten and loosen the lids.

Tailwinds,
Glen

----------------------------------------------

From: Alastair 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Sunday, February 01, 2004 5:06 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Looking for some info

Jack,

The top of the vent trunk is 420mm x 250mm wide (plus or minus 10 mm, It isn't critical). On my plans, on the transverse section (sheet 9) I have penciled in 72mm for the width of the tapered block at the narrow end. However, as I remember, I just made up the block with offcuts and then ground it to shape with the angle grinder and sanding disc. The dimensions really aren't important, just make it fit.

The side and rear panels must have come out of the offcut ply, as I didn't have to buy any more.

As a suggestion to future builders, I made up the vent trunk, and fitted the mast before assembling the bulkheads to the sides. I did this as I didn't have the height to fit the mast after assembly, and was able to do it all with the mast horizontal. But it may have made fiddling about with the mast step easier too.

If you are intending to drink the water then this would be wise. Give your supplier a ring. Some say their epoxy is ok for water tanks and some say it isn't. See sheet 5. The forward bins stop at the tank top so there is access to the space outboard of the tank sides. The aft bins and go to the bottom, or not as you like.

My tip for the aft bins is to leave them short except for a leg at the forward end. This will mean that the panel will sit nicely on the leg and the lower cleat on bulkhead 4 while you screw it in place. From experience, I would also suggest fitting another shelf near the bottom of the aft bins. I have found that anything sitting on the bottom board gets damp.

Hoping for calm nights,
Al,
Yeovil, England.