From: "orpdh" <petehodges@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Wearing the Boat
Date: Fri, 21 Dec 2001 12:07:05 -0000


I am 6' 3" and older fatter and less limber than I would prefer.

The cabin appears to have about 36" in height at the rear of the 
cabin from the cabin roof to the sole.  I made marks on a wall and 
sat down against the marks. 36" will barely do it.  I also need some 
height under my posterior or my legs to not feel very good.  I chose 
a 3" thick phone book.

39" is workable for me.  So where do I get the other three inches?

One possibility is making the entire boat about 5% bigger.  As I 
started looking at the problems inherant in that I noticed that the 
bulkheads are not vertical nor is the stem.  To make a long story 
short there would be a lot of figuring and I am sure I would end up 
cutting some wood wrong.

You could probably lower the sole an inch.  That would give you less 
water ballast.  One idea I had to make up the weight was to fasten 
multiple pieces of steel strap, the kind that is about 3/16" x 5/8" 
length wise alont the bottom of the keel.  It would be easy enough to 
bend and would put the weight as low as possible and provide great 
protection to the bottom. Once I had enough weight on the bottom of 
the boat I would cover them all in epoxy and fair the bottom.

This would also take an inch away from the storage area.  Many can 
goods would no longer fit standing up.

Looking at the drawings, there seems to be room to raise the cabin 
say 1" in the front and 2" in the back.  This would increase the rake 
of the cabin roof, but not darasically.  The increased weight in 
materials would be trivial, but you would increase the windage.

You could make cabin even taller if you could lengthen the mast and 
raise the sail.  If you lengthen the mast it will no longer fit 
inside the boat.  I read in another post that you even have to make 
the mast shorter to compensate for any light you put on the top of 
the mast.

You could probably increase the height of the bottom of the mast by 
1" without dangerously increasing the tendancy to broach.  Especially 
if you put some steel on the outside of the bottom of the hull.

This would allow you to raise the cabin another inch fore and aft.

If you did all these things you would increase the interior cabin 
height as follows - 3" at the front and 4" at the back.

I am sure this note is going to drive the purists crazy, but hey -- a 
man has got to be able to dream.

Pete