From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2004 21:35:10 -0000
Subject: Re: Build Manual, Laminating Beams

Not a problem Al. Thanks for the criticism. I really can appreciate where you're coming from.

I've built commercial fishing boats and I've built magazine cover yachts. They both have their place to be sure. I'm not implying that this design should be built to any more rigorous standard than simply what the plans provide.

Who hasn't been to a fancy restaurant and been startled to find a bone in the soup or a tail in the bisque? Certainly, such an ingredient would be an accidental addition. You wouldn't expect to find in the chef's notes, "don't worry if a bone gets in the soup", or "thoroughly peel the shrimp, but if you miss one, that's quite all right". Does a piece of eggshell spoil an otherwise perfect cake? The answer is really as individual as the consumer.

Frankly, this is quite a simple design. Because of the self fairing qualities of plywood, certain freedoms may be realised that would not be possible with some other designs, or methods of construction. As an example, the bulkheads, deck beams, and floor timbers need not demonstrate particularly fair lines in themselves, though doing so will provide the builder with affirmations as to their correct construction.

I choose not to advocate an exceptable amount of imprecision, rather, I stress that precision always be the goal. Certainly, there will be variances which creep into the construction of any boat, but a lackadaisical attitude to them can really affect the final product. As I said, early mistakes can tend to snowball through the rest of construction.

I think that everyone who is contemplating the construction of any boat, must have a pretty firm grasp of what the end product will be, just as they must have a grasp of their work habits, skill level, and willingness to learn. As you said Al, you had a rather more slapdash approach, which nonetheless resulted in a boat with which you are happy. Would any amount of outside direction have changed this approach or prevented you from starting?

I'm really trying to avoid writing a personal manifesto. I've tried to stick with the facts as I see them, and offer organization and generally recognized rules of thumb. So far, I've just tried to stick with the recipe (hold the tails), using the plans as the reference. Where I have failed in this respect, I'm hopeful that eventual editing will help. The last chapter did end up rather long, and I apologize for that. Photos and editing should clean it up. I have never claimed to be a writer.

Again, the note on accuracy:

(NOTE ON ACCURACY): Careful execution of templates will insure parts consistant with the design. While a few millimeters difference may appear inconsequential in the finished product, some errors in boatbuilding become cumulative. An error incurred at the beginning of construction will often become an increased challenge as the work progresses. It is up to the individual builder to determine the level of fit and finish upon which to strive. As the builder gains experience, so too does the builder gain knowledge on the applications of various "tricks of the trade", or shortcuts.

Please do feel free to write your own paragraph reflecting what you feel would be a fair assertion to all potential builders. But bear in mind, the whole point of this manual is a basis from which to begin the construction of a Paradox, to the plans as drawn, not a generic boatbuilding manual. That is the common denominator. If your paragraph better reflects this goal, it can certainly be included.

Actually, please feel free (anyone) to write any portion of the build manual that you would like. After all, this is a manual for the good of the group, to be assembled by the group.

Sorry to have rambled.

DC