From:           	"Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To:             	paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date:           	Wed, 18 Feb 2004 22:34:06 +0000
Subject:        	Re: Opinions sought from the offshore experienced


A preface to my post: I'm not suggesting any changes to the salient features of Paradox. 

If one considered using Paradox as an offshore microcruiser, would any of the following items add value to its already extensive list of safety features? I've noticed that many sailors consider them essential to offshore sailing.

-- A sprayhood

This is possibly a good idea. I have noticed that on some points of sail, in otherwise perfect conditions, that an occasional teaspoon of water finds its way on deck. The downside would be loss of vision. If more water is coming aboard then it may be time to retreat below.

-- A leecloth system (I'm imagining a few seatbelts securely connected to the floorboards -- some for seated positions, some for sleep.)

A few strategically placed inflatable cushions may serve the same purpose.

-- A small windvane. Is it even possible to fit one to Paradox?

A windvane could easily be fitted forward of the mast

-- A spare rudder (compact, stowable emergency rudder)

I have always viewed the yuloh as an emergency rudder.

-- A foam filled mast

It's already air filled. Foam would just make it heavier

-- Toerails and handholds, in case you have crawl around on deck at sea.

There are already toerails in the plans and they certainly make moving about on deck safer. Handholds would probably be a good idea if you wanted to play on the deck, but i would need a compelling reason to go on deck while at sea in any small boat.

-- Smaller lexan windows or backing supports for the windows, to lessen the chance of storm waves bashing them in.

If you hit the windows with a sledge hammer I suspect that the whole cabin would come off before the windows would break. I had a 10mm wide offcut of lexan that I was able to tie a reef knot in with no sign of it cracking.

Would these features tip the scales in favor of sailing offshore in Paradox?

These would not be near the top of my list of modifications if I were contemplating serious offshore sailing. The first thing I would do get in a couple of seasons experience in the standard boat and then make sure that *I* was up to it. The skipper is usually the weakest link.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.