From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Opinions sought from the offshore experienced
Date: Wed, 18 Feb 2004 23:13:01 -0000


Hi Servo.


The design is such that sailing from the protected position within the pilothouse eliminates any possible benefit of a spray hood or dodger. Just close the hatch.


Seatbelts and leecloths are two different items. I'm not sure what benefit leecloths would offer, but seatbelts may be a good feature for keeping the center of gravity as close to the cabin sole as possible, in the event of a roll. Also, should the conditions become chaotic. seatbelts could reduce the abuse upon the sailor.


The short answer is no, but given enough thought, there are solutions at the expense of weight and complexity. Search the archives. We just had a fairly substantial discussion on this subject.


This issue is becoming one of those "catch phrase contingencies" brought on by race committees, and armchair sailors. One can carry spares for most anything aboard a boat. The trick is to carry the basic items with which to effect repairs, rather than the complete replacement items. In a pinch, the yuloh could be employed as an emergency rudder, but there is still the issue of lateral resistance; without the rudder, the boat will become imbalanced. Fortunately, the rudder and hardware as designed, is incredibly robust. Build to the design. 


Why? The designed mast is wood.


There are toerails on the Paradox design. The hatch slides on the cabin top would serve as handrails.


Run the numbers, don't just assume that the design is inadequate in this respect. Ask yourself what is too strong. What is too heavy? Why do so many people insist on deluding themselves into believing that a design component on any given boat is not strong enough? WHAT is strong enough? Don't assume that overbuilding will offer any realistic benefit besides the assuaging of one's fears.


Ultimately, this question is up to the individual to answer. I think that this design offers some features not available on any other designs. These features combine to produce an exquisite system. Like Bill Longyard, I predict some long distance accomplishments for the Paradox design. It's up to the individual to correctly assess competence, ability to withstand hardships, and comfort requirements. By "comfort", I'm not merely talking about the physical aspects.


Good questions.


DC