From: "Craig" <with@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 25 Mar 2004 19:22:36 -0000
Subject: Ballast on X-Y tracks and Windsurfer sails. . .

You know I don't have more then the study plans before me, but after looking at the layout of the freshwater tanks and lead pigs in some of the construction photos, and thinking about how people are saying that one should rearrange things are the fresh water is used, I was wondering this: Could one build in two X-Y channels with ballast pigs on runners/tracks to more simply rebalance the boat once underway? I am thinking of something analogous to an X-Y beam scale here. 

This maybe less of an issue then I'm thinking, not having a paradox of my own yet, but it seems that it might also allow one to adjust the ballast position for different sailing conditions. At first I was thinking of doing this in terms of adjusting the position of the fresh water as ballast itself, but this seems like it maybe to complicated to think about/contend with at the moment, since the fresh water is constantly being used up.

You know I realized that I have more experience windsurfing then sailing with a fixed mast last night too. So with this in mind, I started translating some of these thoughts in to if I was standing on the paradox sailing it with a windsurfer rigging. And after doing this I started to have all sorts of crazy ideas about a Paradox based design, such as the potential for this dynamic control over ballast as conditions changed.
I mean, it sort of has the mild or extreme potential for something that seems akin to an out rigging, but since the weight/force is directed lower (within the boat) it would seem offhand to translate into a more stable situation/ride for the solo sailor. 

This also made me think of some of the benefits of the Universal on the sailboard mast and some things I recently read about a family's experience sailing a traditional sharpie with heavily canted masts. The Universal, as they commonly explain in boardsailing 101, has the advantage of creating lift when canted to the stern, as opposed to the traditional sailboat mast which drives the sailboat down in to the water. They used to use this explanation a lot in the early days  of windsurfing to describe how a windsurfer could sail faster then a traditional sailboat (at the time the windsurfer held the speed record for sailing). 

Anyway, I had read this account this sharpie where the sailor was staying that the canted masts had the effect of turning the boat in to the wind when sailing windward, which is also the case if one does this when board sailing in to the wind. But this of course is not a problem with a board sail since you can dynamically control all of this as you sail. All of this makes me think of the way one might take advantage of some of this on a Paradox-type boat. 

Offhand, it would seem that a builder could build in to the mast footing a track where the canting of the sail could be adjusted (forward and aft) first off. I will have to think about taking further advantage of the sailboard universal mast more though, and look at how it has been adapted to other sailboats. It seems like I have seen windsurfer sails on boats before, but I don't if they were just using them because the sails were ready made or if they were actually used in a non-standard mast/base configuration.  

Regarding using them as ready made sails, I was thinking that one could make them reefable if they were non-battened and they were rolled-up on the mast with a mechanism at their base similar to the one Matt has used to reef his sail. The boom would have to contend with this in some way, but I think it might offer some possibility in taking advantage of their wide availability and design features. 

I am not sure how much of this would be readily useful o someone building, but I intend to think about it more and thought you all might enjoy speculating on it. 

Thanks again,
Craig