From: "Craig" <with@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 26 Mar 2004 01:08:49 -0000
Subject: Re: Ballast on X-Y tracks and Windsurfer sails. . .



You are surely right about this, but if one gets to speculating about 
a modified design or a system of adjustable `ballast tracks' this 
might not be true. Or even if it still is true, the ability to self 
right oneself is quickened by the force of the ballast  moved to one 
side quickly, like standing out on a dagger board opposed just having 
the weight more evenly distributed. 

Of course, the additional speed of this self righting (roll rate)
depends largely on whether the locking/unlocking mechanism works 
quickly and precisely. If it were an awkward setup it would be hardly 
worth it. I am not suggesting that one would want to begin building 
anything like this without some extensive experimenting.

I do see a great possibility in this adjustable ballast track in 
relation to both balancing a boat when previsions are dwindling, 
sailing up or down wind, and if different materials were used in the 
haul  construction then are called for in the plans. 

Alternatively to the rolling box design (but larger in terms of 
cavity), one might consider using a pipe with something like those 
small weight lifting discs (I've even heard they make ones which fill 
with sand or water too) that could slide in a group up and down, back 
and forth (and be added/filled in route). 

It just seems like (especially if one was thinking/speculating on an 
adjustable/canting  mast) that it would be nice to move the weight 
back when going downwind and up a bit when going against the wind. In 
the same way, it seems like it would be nice to add weight (more then 
you could by shifting yourself in the cabin) to your windward side 
with a degree based on the conditions. 

I'm not going to act like I've worked all of this out or anything, 
but it is more a suggestion that I thought of and I'm curious if 
anyone thinks it is workable the chine runners and what not. Being 
able to distribute the weight on the fly seems like it could offer 
possibilities in terms of larger sails or  lighter (might I say high 
performance) design possibilities too.