From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 29 Mar 2004 06:09:45 -0000
Subject: Re: Trolling

Hi David.

At one time, I was taken in by all of the hype regarding fishing as a sport. I bought tons of tackle, and poles, and reels, all with the intent of having fun while fishing. (I notice that fishing lures and pet toys are more about attracting the fisherman or pet owner than about attracting the animal.)

After much loss of expensive gear, I went back to my old standby, the meathook. This rig was set up for me by some friendly albacore jig fishermen. I was skeptical, as there was nothing particularly interesting, or even the least bit sneaky about the rig. It was about 50' of 500lb tuna cord, tied to a big ol' SS swivel, with a 25' piece of 500lb monofilament ending with a "tuna-feather", which is just a big lead-headed jig and a bunch of white and green feathers. The tuna-feather had a big double, barbless hook.

At first I thought that the guys were pulling my leg. I swore that I would only catch a fish if it were completely stupid and suffering from cataracts. They showed me their own gear, which looked surprisingly similar. 

I decided that the right fish on a 500lb meathook could do some serious damage to my boat. I bought some more 500lb tuna cord and some surgical tubing. I ran the new tuna cord through a three foot piece of surgical tubing, lashed one end of the tubing around the tuna cord, and then streched the tubing out to perhaps 16'. I slowly released the tension on the tubing while the tuna cord bundled up inside. when all tension was released, I lashed the other end of the tubing to the cord. Then I repeated this process with a piece of tubular nylon webbing to protect the surgical tubing from sunlight (surgical tubing sun-rots very quickly). When all was complete, I cut the slack tuna cord to the original length of 50' and attached it to the big ol' swivel. Between the end of the 500lb mono and the tuna feather, I put on a wire leader in case dinner had teeth. The whole rig measured no more than 100 feet, but the fishermen insisted that 50 feet was all that was really necessary.

I caught an amazing amount of fish on this rig, and never lost a tuna feather. I had sierra, bonito, albacore, yellowfin, yellowtail, and dorado. Usually, I discovered that I had a fish on when it was skating across the surface of the water, having been completely worn out. I was fortunate not to ever find half a fish. I caught so much fish, that besides sushi and barbecue, I had a full freezer and much to share with other sailors.

Dragging this big hook around made me nervous around all marine mammals, and I often had to yank in the meathook to prevent boobies, gulls, and frigate birds from dining on it. (Ah friggit!)

Here in the Pacific NW, I imagine this rig would be useless, as salmon bite on deep rigs, and the other fish reside on the bottom. Albacore move north in the summer, but usually well offshore.

It's a good idea to talk to the commercial fishermen who make their living by the sea. They know what works in the area where they fish. You can also stop in at the local commercial fishing chandlery. 

Sport fishermen are all about foreplay, while the commercial fishermen are all about the cigarette.

Have fun.

DC