From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 07 Apr 2004 07:43:09 -0000
Subject: Re: Got my plans today

Welcome Alf.

Feeling a little overwhelmed can be a good thing. It shows that you care enough about the journey to respect what it asks of you. Particularly for the beginning boatbuilder, it is a good idea to study the plans as much as possible, throughout the building process, and allow the design to guide your actions. Break up the construction of your boat into as many small tasks as you can. Besides keeping you from feeling stressed, this will allow you to celebrate each small completion. Before you know it, you're posting photos of your launch party.

You will accrue experience just as soon as you begin. It sounds like your six years of cabinetry and carpentry experience already gives you something upon which to build.

Step back occassionally, to appreciate your accomplishments. Photos will buoy your spirits when you feel like nothing is going right or quickly. I keep a build log for each boat I build, and find it indispensible for those instances when I wonder what I was thinking so many months ago (oh yeah, I added 9mm to that edge to allow me to use a caprail...). 

When I feel like I need some input from the group, I search through the archives, and pose the question to the group. There are as many different opinions as there are ways of doing something, so it's up to the individual to cull the wheat from the chaff.

Don't forget why you're doing this. Eventually you'll set sail. It's better to do this sooner rather than later. Good sailing dinghies are the best sailing instructors, and they're a hell of a lot of fun too. Depending on your location, you could pick up a second hand dinghy for very little money, to use as you are building your boat. When you're done with the dinghy, it can be sold to pay for a few solar panels, cushions and a galley stove, etc., etc... You can certainly build your own sailing dinghy if you choose. The basics of sailing can be learned in an afternoon, but you will spend the rest of your life discovering the finer points. A dinghy hastens the process.

Most importantly, enjoy yourself. Have fun.

DC