From: "alfswatzky" <alfswatzky@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 09 Apr 2004 22:06:59 -0000
Subject: Re: Got my plans today

Wow, DC. 18c. Today we have a high of -2c{30f}. With the odd snow flurry thrown in for good measure. The low tonight is supposed to be -12c{5f}. One of these days I'm going to move somewhere warmer.

I did a search for "el Toro" and didn't come up with anything. Do you know of any links that focus on this design?

Hope you're enjoying the tropical weather.

Cheers, Alf

From: DC <kd7ixk@y...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Wednesday, April 07, 2004 10:55 PM
Subject: [pb] Re: Got my plans today

Hi Alf.

You will benefit tremendously from your sailing lessons. Do you know of anyone with an iceboat? Adrenalin can be a significant source of body heat in the dead of the Northern winter, and ice boating is a good way to stimulate it. It's probably too late for that this year.

I'm in NW Oregon, on the Columbia river. Washington is on the opposite bank. Today, my wife and I drove down to Astoria, at the mouth of the Columbia, where the sky was beautiful blue, and the wind was blowing 15-20 kts out of the NW. The leaves are budding, and the flowers are blooming, and it was a good day to be alive. It was only 65f (18c), but when we got home, we had 70f and later, a beautiful sunset.

Should you decide to first build a sailing dinghy, a good "quick and dirty" design would be Phil Bolger's "Elegant Punt", which I personally find to be more practical than elegant. If you're a little bitty guy, a "Cape Cod Frosty" could be an option. My favorite plywood sailing dinghy has to be the "el Toro", which is well respected most everywhere, easy to build, and worthy of lasting ownership.

Building a dinghy before starting on a larger boat like Paradox will pay dividends in confidence and applicable skills, plus you can sail whenever you find yourself STILL sanding on a beautiful day. You just might find that there are a great many beautiful days.

Have fun.

DC

From: "alfswatzky" <alfswatzky@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Tuesday, April 06, 2004 2:20 AM
Subject: [pb] Got my plans today

Hello again everyone
I got my Paradox plans today, and I'm both thrilled and intimidated. I'm not an experienced sailor, and I've never built a boat, but I'm excited by the prospect of doing both.

Thanks to all of you for your various comments and suggestions. They will certainly be helpful as I embark on this adventure.

Cheers, Alf