From: Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 7 Apr 2004 22:02:02 +0000
Subject: Re: Got my plans today

All good advice there Alf, but be aware that sailing a Paradox is 
much more like sailing a yacht than a dinghy. I also had little 
experience of sailing when I got my Paradox on the water but it is 
amazingly easy to sail. I may not get the best out of it, but what I 
get is jolly good!

That said, if you can sail a dinghy you can sail anything.

From: DC <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 07 Apr 2004 07:43:09 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Got my plans today

Welcome Alf.

Feeling a little overwhelmed can be a good thing. It shows that you
care enough about the journey to respect what it asks of you.
Particularly for the beginning boatbuilder, it is a good idea to study
the plans as much as possible, throughout the building process, and
allow the design to guide your actions. Break up the construction of
your boat into as many small tasks as you can. Besides keeping you
from feeling stressed, this will allow you to celebrate each small
completion. Before you know it, you're posting photos of your launch
party.

You will accrue experience just as soon as you begin. It sounds like
your six years of cabinetry and carpentry experience already gives you
something upon which to build.

Step back occasionally, to appreciate your accomplishments. Photos
will buoy your spirits when you feel like nothing is going right or
quickly. I keep a build log for each boat I build, and find it
indispensable for those instances when I wonder what I was thinking so
many months ago (oh yeah, I added 9mm to that edge to allow me to use
a caprail...). 

When I feel like I need some input from the group, I search through
the archives, and pose the question to the group. There are as many
different opinions as there are ways of doing something, so it's up to
the individual to cull the wheat from the chaff.

Don't forget why you're doing this. Eventually you'll set sail. It's
better to do this sooner rather than later. Good sailing dinghies are
the best sailing instructors, and they're a hell of a lot of fun too.
Depending on your location, you could pick up a second hand dinghy for
very little money, to use as you are building your boat. When you're
done with the dinghy, it can be sold to pay for a few solar panels,
cushions and a galley stove, etc., etc... You can certainly build your
own sailing dinghy if you choose. The basics of sailing can be learned
in an afternoon, but you will spend the rest of your life discovering
the finer points. A dinghy hastens the process.

Most importantly, enjoy yourself. Have fun.

DC

--
Hoping for calm nights
Al
Yeovil, England.