From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: big guy in a small boat
Date: Fri, 07 May 2004 01:03:35 -0000

Hi James.

I'm a mere 6'1", 225lbs, and I don't think that I'll have the least
problem. Of course, I'm just a whisp of a thing next to you. What do
you drive? I can comfortably drive a Mazda Miata and a Porsche 914,
but getting in and out can make me look pretty rediculous.

I decided to build this design with an eye toward solo sailing. I
think that I would be entirely too uncomfortable sharing the interior
of my boat with my 4'11", 100lb wife, even if I chose to eliminate the
bins as some builders have done.

I imagine that your weight won't be a problem, but that your height
may require some creative sleeping arrangements. Glen has used an
inflatable mattress, which would probably elevate you sufficiently to
allow your lower legs to comfortably hang past the #2 bulkhead, where
they could rest on a PFD or thwart cushion, etc...

While sailing, you should certainly be able to sit on the thwart with
your head out the companionway, and I think that you would be
comfortable sitting on the sole with the hatch closed, but you would
probably have to sit with a more reclined posture. This could be
accomplished with the folding canvas and foam chairs out there. I
think that you would have no problem whatsoever while day sailing, so
long as the boat is trimmed to her lines with you aboard, with typical
stores.

Some folks have tried using cardboard mockups, but for small vessel
interiors in which a great deal of physical contact will be necessary,
it can put one off to see a flimsy box moving around upon entering and
exiting. I'd never even attempt to get in a Miata if I were faced with
the prospect of first sitting in a cardboard mockup of one.

I can't remember how large Glen is (you can search the archives, but
it might be easier if Dave of Little Cruiser, or Dave of Whisper
chimed in), but he does have some pretty good interior photos in the
photos and files sections, which illustrate how well he fits aboard
Zoe.

Of course, you could always stretch the design, as quite a few people
have expressed an interest. Check the files section for the
information if you're interested, however, I think you could manage
aboard an as-designed Paradox. Like a small car, you'd get used to it,
but you'd probably look a little funny getting in and out.

Have fun.

DC