From: "boat142" <robertplabbe@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 13 May 2004 00:36:35 -0000
Subject: Re watertight boot on the Paradox tiller

DC,

In regards to your posting Digest 2084, in reply to my posting 2083, 
The authorities on which I have based my observation were:

Direct consultations with Matt Layden, Designer of Paradox 
(2003.10.17);

Report CG-D-20-87 (May 1987) U.S. Coast Guard Research & Development 
Center, Avery Point, Groton Connecticut.

The aforementioned research studies I believe 4 hull types: 
Round bilge/fin keel, V bottom fin keel, hard chine flat bottom & I believe 
soft chine full length keel sailboats. The research studied 
the limits of parachute & cone sea anchors, waps and series sea drogues.

The end result was the development of the series sea drogue to 
overcome the shortcomings of the parachute sea anchor. And to 
develop the proper rigging from the stern instead of from the bow.

I will let the report speak for itself; However, the study ended in 
1987 and the first Paradox plans were drawn in 1984. If you look at 
the conclusions of the study, you will be able to appreciate that a 
series sea drogue can be useful on Paradox. But you do not have to 
agree with me.

Matt Layden recommended that I use a heavy acrylic fabric such as 
Sunbrella, Acrilan or similar for the tiller boot. He likewise 
recommended that I install an aft deck small dorade or mushroom vent, 
over the transom baffle, equipped with a heavy weather cover or cut 
off for capsize protection, and finally that I install a separate 
scupper to drain the baffle.

A seacock is a through hull ball valve that stops water ingress while 
permitting free drainage. It is used regularly on small sailboat 
cockpit well draining systems.

My use of the term "tiller arm" was accidental on digest 2083 and was 
not pertinent to our exchange. (It relates to a two part tiller - 
Tiller arm inside the hull / Tiller fork outside the hull, linking to 
the compensated rudder - A study on establishing a pre-designed breaking 
point, permitting to repair the tiller from inside the boat)

My spelling/typing mistakes/errors are not motivated by lack of 
respect for the English language or for the readers; They are the 
result of the degree of command that I have on this language, 
compounded by a slight handicap related to motility. Whenever I spot 
a mistyping I back track and correct. - But I agree with you that it 
is frustrating...

I wish to assure you that on Paradox there is no problem of the cabin 
trunk exploding because of an atmospheric pressure differential with 
the outside, as there is a 120mm diameter hole in the deck, just in 
front of the windshield, combine to the fact that the sliding hatch 
loosely oscillated on its tracks, venting any pressure differential. 
The are two other occasions when the transom tiller port is sealed 
off: One, when Matt Layden stuffs firmly towels over the noisome 
bug meeting and into the porthole to keep the following seas out and, 
two, when the baffle is almost full of water that cannot be 
compressed and takes too long to drain out to free the port for the 
stabilization of the air pressure. In any event, the sliding hatch 
will blow out before the pilot house explodes, as its curved framing 
and loose fitting to the tracks will make it pop out, bleeding off 
the excess air pressure; In this regard, I told Matt that I would 
envisage a quick release strap system to batten down the hatch ( Not 
to make it air or water tight, but to keep it tied to the boat if it 
pops out in a bad storm)...

I would use a 15ft/sec water jet to test the stern prior to rigging a 
series sea drogue. This number comes from the above mentioned 
research and I would trust it. The storm duration also comes from the 
same study. The slightly raked transom on Paradox, its pronounced 
hull bottom rocker, its width give it the necessary buoyancy for 
hanging a series sea drogue. Conversely, its bow, with its sunken 
forefoot stem is designed to do exactly the opposite (to prevent the 
boat from aquaplaning and to interdict pounding of the hull. With 
the stern rigged sea anchor, you will expect a plus/minus 10 degree 
yaw, that swings around the compensated rudder vertical axis, vs the 
14' long moment arm for a bow mounted parachute anchor that 
continually stresses the rudder during the entire storm. Installing the 
stern rigged series sea drogue is less dangerous than going to the 
bow to install the parachute anchor....

But as I said previously, I would prefer a temporary watertight boot 
on the tiller, that I would leave rolled up above the bug netting 
until required by a storm. This way, it would be in perfectly new 
condition at the moment of its use and to boot I would benefit from 
the open port for fair weather ventilation.

Cheers,
Robert