From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: water tight boot on the Paradox tiller arm
Date: Fri, 14 May 2004 19:30:22 +0000

Great scenario, did you used to write for the Keystone Kops?

From: "boat142" <robertplabbe@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: water tight boot on the Paradox tiller arm
Date sent: Fri, 14 May 2004 12:11:16 -0000

What was being discussed by DC was keeping a parachute sea anchor 45 degrees off the starbord side of the bow. You cannot do that if you raise the rudder, as you need to keep the rudder in a continuous 45 degree port turn to keep the boat off axis from the parachute sea anchor; 

I had assumed it was held at 45 deg by a bridle attached to the 
bow and stern cleats.

This is equivalent to continuously keeping the boat in  turn
and I said that it would continually stress the rudder by the force of
a 14' long moment arm (from the ow to the rudder). Has the rudder
assembly been designed to sustain the stress of a 30 hour long left
turn ? - You cannot hanga series sea drogue fromthe bow, because of
its design: Part of its system consist in a "Y" shaped bridle that
ties into each corner of the transom; This way, each corner sustains
at any one time from 30% to 70% of the total line load. 

Be careful with bridles, if the bridle is too short it is possible that 
both the bridle lines will be seeing loads greater than the drogue 
line.

Then, at the
bottom of the "V", where these two lines meet, they are joined to a
shock absorber, to elimiate chocks as the word implies. From there,
there is a long nylon line for two reasons: One, because of its
elasticity and, two, so that the line takes on an horizontal axis in
relation to the boat, to "tow" the boat horizontally. Then followsa
series of 90 small drogues on a long line for the following reasons:
Wave oscilations have very little catch on them and cause very little
damage in closing and opening them; There are always some in open
position. This is not true for the paracute sea anchor that
desintegrates eventually, dew to this closing and opening to wave
oscillations. If the parachute is in closed position when the braking
wave strikes, it will not slow the boat that will be capsized. This
will never hapen with the series sea drogue. Furthermore, the
parachute occasionally finds itself in the through on the other side
of the wave, on the surface with no retaining value, possibly right at
the very moment of a breaking wave strike on the boat; This will never
happen with the series sea drogue that is long enough to cover two
waves with their through. If the parachute sea anchor is hit by a
breaking wave, it will possibly be thrown over to the other side of
the boat and then actually serve to ACCELERATE the boat instead of
slowing it down; This will never happen with a series sea drogue
because in the end its long line of drogues goes behond the
breakingwave, anchoring to drogues to resist being thrown over the
boat - Additionally, at the end of the series of drogues, there is an
extension line that goes still further out, with an anchor (or weight)
tied at the very end to keep everything in the water and operational;
You do not have this safety feature on the parachute sea anchor.
Contrarilly of wath has been said, the series sea drogue is not a
trick to sell canvas and it was specificly designed to overcome the
shortcomings of the parachute sea annchor. It has been tested in
modeling, in tnaks and in full size real life situations. - It you tie
from the bow, you should have a look at the main ventilation port, on
the deck in front of the windshield; Since the bow his designed to not
climb on the waves and has very little boyancy, if you do not do like
DC and keep the boat 45 degrees off axis, your bow will dig into the
water, the incoming sea will hit the windshield and flod the mainvent
trunk; The trunk will overflow by great quantities of water; 

During one of my less sensible trips I got into a position where 
green water was repeatedly washing over the entire boat (an open 
dinghy would have been swamped). While I could hear water 
running into the vent trunk it was in relatively small quantities. The 
drain had no problem and it ran out faster than it ran in.

This
water, because your drogue/anchor is pulling the boat into the wave,
will flow to the forward stateroom, 

For water to lie forward of bulkhead 2, on my boat. the bottom of 
the transom would have to be about a foot out of the water, they 
must have a jolly strong pull these drogues!

away from the bildge pump, will
further sink the bow, in an operation similar to the seamen running to
the front of the submarine to assist it in its dive. The more the bow
will sink, the greater the angle of attack of the main vent port will
be in face of the incoming sea and the greater the water ingress will
be, in an accelerated maner. Althought Paradox was designed to be
boyant, I am not sure that the calculations took into account the
force of a line pulling it down under by the bow, where there is about
no boyancy, at least much less then at the wide stern ... In face of
this situation, you will have to push the sliding hatch FORWARD into
the incoming sea, crawl to the bow to CUT the anchor/drogue line; Then
you will be catapulted backwards, your backboen most likely hiting the
opened sliding hatch -

I came up with 3 methods of anchoring by the bow without leaving 
the cabin. The first one I tried worked so I don't know about the 
other 2. I see no reason why any one of them would not work with 
a drogue. I would not consider leaving the cabin while at sea a 
sensible manoeuvre.

The resulting bakc injury might just take away for a long enough
period of time all physical force from your legs, just when you would
need them to reboard the boat from the wrong end (away from the
swimming step on the rudder) ...

Haven't we already broken the rudder off? :->
 
Cheers, Robert

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.