From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Furling system
Date: Fri, 28 Dec 2001 19:05:06 -0800

The skinny on the furling gear, as I see it, is that you need three hands (man lost a lot when he lost his tail). One to ease the halyard, one to pull in the furling line and one to hold up the boom so it doesn't go overboard. 

By the end of the third day of my sea trials I was pretty much disgusted with the set up (maybe I'm doing something wrong) and decided it needed a topping lift to take the weight of the boom while being furled or raised. During a day's layover at my brothers house, I made up a temporary standing type topping lift which ran from the end of the boom to the mast head but could be adjusted via a truckers hitch, which could be reached from the hatch, to slack it for lowering into it's resting place when stowed.

The same was true for the front of the boom where I rigged a topping lift from about 6 ft above deck to the front of the furling axle. For the remainder of the trip I would take up the forward topping lift then go back and take up on the aft one. now the boom was free to turn and I could raise the sail being careful to keep the yard on the correct side of the topping lift. This system worked very well and raising and lowering sail was no longer a chore. 

The only problem was that it was easy to get too much tension on the topping lift and it would ride against the sail. The solution of course was to use a running topping lift and that is what I have acquired the parts for. I am including a sketch of the arrangement so you can see how it will work and I will report on it's performance after the next sail. If all goes well I will consider moving it below decks with the halyard and sheet. For now it will be cleated to the base of the mast which is easily reached from the hatch. Except for reefing in foul weather when you don't want the hatch open, a position at the base of the mast would be fine because you need to guide the furled sail into the stowed position any way.

Tailwinds,
Glen