From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 18 Jun 2004 15:53:53 -0000
Subject: Re: Greetings from Horta, Azores

Hi Glen.

Color me green with envy. I can't wait to hear your detailed thoughts
on Hogfish Maximus, and chine runners on bluewater boats. Good to see
you stop in a while. I wish you continued enjoyment and safe passage.

DC


Hi All,

Just got a chance to get on line and catch up on the messages. 
Thanks to DC and Nels for stepping in while I=B4 am away.
Congratulations to Hugh on the lauching of Petite Lady and thanks 
Dave for uploading the pictures.
As for our trip, it has been great! We haven=B4t been rolled over 
or sunk even once. The leg to Bermuda was slow due to light winds 
near the end which resulted in a passage time of 14 days almost to 
the hour and a distanced sailed of 1070 miles. After a 10 day visit 
it was off to Flores in the Azores. We left on the tail end of a 
front to take advantage of favorable westerlies (20+ kts) and had 
the best days run of the trip at 138 miles under about 1/3 of the 
jib and a poled out staysail the first day. We planned to go north 
to 39N degrees to find the westerlies and avoid the azores high but 
found we had to alter to the south to avoid late forming lows and 
gail force winds. Our track was pretty much between 33.5N &amp; 35N 
degrees until we passed 35W and headed up to Flores. This leg took 
17 days and 20 hours and we traveled 1890 miles.  The Azores are 
beautiful and we plan on visiting all the islands. We left Flores 
after less ten 24 hours because the harbor is exposed to the NE and 
as another low approched the swells in the harbor got up to about 5 
ft and made us anxious. 24 hours after leaving Flores we were in 
Horta and having a cold beer at Peter=B4s Sport Cafe, one of the 
worlds watering holes for ocean sailors.
Some quick obsevations on the Hogfish Maximus: The chine runners 
work great even at this size range and we only use the daggerboard 
if we are really strapped in and clawing to weather. It has probably 
not been used for more then 48 hrs on the whole trip as she goes to 
weather just fine without it. She pounds no more the some racing 
boats I have sailed on and her motion has been very comfortable. She 
is extreamly quite below and we have found that the weather can 
deteriorate with out our noticing if we get complacent about going 
on deck often. After having sailed from Tortoga BVI to Jacksonville 
FL aboard a Hans Christian 38 I can say I would rather be aboard the 
Hogfish which has much better roll damping. I will fill you guys in 
with more detail when I get back to the states so be thinking of 
your questions if you have any. The Hogfish is much to big for what 
I would like but I=B4m thinking that a 21 to 25 foot version of the 
Paradox would be pretty grand for ocean voyaging.

Taiwinds 
Glen