From: "dclark52001" <dclark@woden.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 18 Jun 2004 18:34:25 -0000
Subject: Re: depth finder

Thanks to those that took the trouble to reply.
I think that Al's idea of mounting on the transom makes sense; holes in the bottom are not a good idea.
In reply to Chadoora:

Do you really require an electronic depth finder?.
Yes, definitely

We are looking at a boat that draws around 1 foot and thus can clear most obstacles
Except sharp ones of 13 inches. I thought my question made it clear that I see a need (recognized by all coastal navigator/authors that I have read) to know the depth under me as an aid to position finding in fog. Quite frankly if it's a metre I'll jump out and wade ashore, but if it's 5 or 10 metres it's as well to know.

 without much intelligence on the part of the skipper. 
I'll assume that this is a general remark rather than personal. If it is personal then no doubt our moderator will sort it.

Before looking at any electronic gizmo's to aid your navigation, being competant in coastal navigation is a requirement. eg. reading your position off charts and assessing distances from obstacles.
I am competent (note spelling) in coastal navigation. I have RYA certificates to say so and I'll refer you to my earlier remark about fog.

I really question the need for a depth sounder in the Paradox, the best depth sounder is the "slowing" of the boat(glue effect), swans standing in front of the boat or just read the charts.
I don't know where you hale from, and don't bother telling me, but your swans must be longer legged than mine. Around here any swan standing in 5 metres of water for a protracted time is drowned.

The designer has shown that this craft can be sailed great distances by sail and yuloh, he cringes when an outboard is mentioned.
He has, and no doubt he will, but then he hasn't my back problems or great age to contend with. Therefore, I have an outboard. Sorry Matt. BTW I won't be building halfway up a hill with a bicycle for transport, either. Now I feel really impure. Am I really Luddite enough for a Paradox?

Horses for courses.    
They don't stand in 5 metres of water either although Charles Stock once bumped into some in the Thames Estuary, but they were past grazing.

thanks again to those who answered my question.................Derek