From: "DLB" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: new builder in Oz
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 06:58:16 -0500

Hi John, 

Im a Diver also, I have gear aboard my Paradox alot, its a little cramped and cant see it happening on long trips with 4 tanks. Have you thought of any neat ways of storeing Dive aboard ?

David

---
Original message:
---

From: John Gardiner 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2004 3:37 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] new builder in Oz

I am presently in the finishing stages of completion of a basicly from the plans plywood paradox, cabin is on and working on the hatch, mast is 1/2 way complete, lower rudder has been leaded and complete, upper rudder is being built. I dive alot locally and I collect lead sinkers, wieght belts,and wrap up the fishing line I find, it makes the dive sites cleaner and safer, and its something to do while diving, so I have the lead. I would say sand would work fine, altho it would take up more space than lead. I am the one that has the STRONG feelings on a steel paradox, So I am completing a stock one so if/when I go steel i'l know if its good/bad. my feeling is that a stock 14 foot PARADOX does not lend to steel, however a larger one may be the ticket. I would have to say steel fabrication would be much faster.  I have grown very fond of this lil boat after sitting in it and feeling the proportions. I cant wait to get her in the water. also she has been a great adventure in construction, have at it!! and good luck!

Jack

---

From: bilbilau 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Thursday, August 19, 2004 9:41 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] new builder in Oz

Hi Everybody,

My name is Bill, I notice there are a few other Bills on this forum so I'll call myself OzBill.

I got my plans about a week and a half ago, and am taking delivery of some plywood tomorrow.

I live in Brisbane, Australia. While reading through the past messages I see there has been at least one, possibly two Paradoxen(?) built here. Are the owners still on this list?


I have a few questions that I hope some of you may be able to answer.

Q. Can Stainless steel be substituted for the Bronze bits?

Q. On plan sheet 9, the tack strop spacer pipe reads 1/4" (6mm) inside diameter but 14mm OD. The strop itself is 8mm. Is this just a glitch in the plans or am I missing something important?

Q. Has anyone used sand bags for ballast?

Q. Is aluminium OK for the lightning rod?

Q. There was a rather heated discussion on the use of steel a while ago, did anyone actually ever build one?

SeeYa
OzBill