From: Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 31 Aug 2004 20:20:43 +0000
Subject: Re: New Member

Have a look at www.asjg.clara.co.uk/little_jim for the answers to some of your questions.

There are no plans for a larger Paradox (yet) but one of the Australian (I think) builders has modified the inside by removing the forward lockers to increase the width for sleeping two.

Fear not about the makeup. Paradox has far more storage space than anything of similar size. When I go away for a weeks boating there are more empty lockers than full ones.

As for beachability, It is easy to land on a beach, but if the tide is falling expect to wait till it comes back in. I know that with the right equipment it is *possible* to move it over a beach, but even with 3 helpers I couldn't do it!

Oh, and last in buys the drinks.



From: "Lee Corbridge, DVM" <allcritters@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Tue, 31 Aug 2004 10:21:39 -0400
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] New Member

Hi Folks ...
I'm new to this group and have been studying the Paradox and Little Cruiser websites for ideas and information.  I have a few questions for ya' all.   ( best southern accent I can muster )

(1) Is there a set of plans for Paradox that is a little bit bigger than 14'? (2) What is the time factor to build a Paradox? (3) What is the estimated cost to build one? (4) Finally ... who buys the beer around here during the construction phase?

Reasons for the questions :

(1) My wife wants to go sailing with me but she needs more room for makeup. (2) At the rate we are seeing hurricanes I may need the boat faster than expected (3) The wife and I spend equally so if I can build it for say 5K for the boat it will in reality cost me 10K (4) Self explainatory   ;-)

All kidding aside .... I want a boat that we can travel with on a trailer to the Western US for sailing/camper style fun on large mountain lakes/ coastal areas and that we wouldn't hesitate to take over to the Bahamas as well ( We live in Sebring, Florida ).  I love the fact of the beachability of the Paradox , AND, I think it's just about the best looking boat around.

We have looked at all the plastic boats and have not been impressed.  I do like the Sea Pearl 21 Tri but at 20K for the boat, 40K total ( damned wife ), kills my pocket right now.  Looked at the Montgomery 15 ( nice ) but still many questions.

OK ... I give.  I think building one would be fun as hell.
So shoot me for being honest ...

Thanks for any comments or recommendations
I love the group


Hoping for calm nights
Al      
Yeovil, England.