From: kjellkkk <gilljam.karlsson@swipnet.se>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 08 Sep 2004 07:10:05 -0000
Subject: Re: chinerunners

Gee, what a memory! I read that book a year ago... Thanks!
Still, i don't quite get the message. If you want to prevent tipping
sidewords, shouldn't the curvature be on the other side of the chine
runner? Upword convexity? But hydrodynamics is a strange science.

Perehaps I should explain my use of sheet metal.
Since I am building my Paradox using the "Bris method"
(fibreglass/divinycell/polyester), the making of the chine runners is
not obvious. Since this material is lighter I also wanted ballast on
the bottom, besides a abrasion surface and earth connection for the
lightning rod. So it became 2mm bronze sheet, weighing 70kg, which I
thought would be appropriate (please don't ask about the price). I
have just glued it to the bottom using elastic epoxy. I have a
neighbour with mechanical shop, trying to help me with some means to
make that curvature, with a radius of about 15mm. It is very
difficult, though, to bend that kind of sheet in two directions, so
perhaps I have to give it up. My neighbour (a skilled mechanician) is
still working with the problem.

Otherwise, the progress is as usual; slow but steady. I have spent
countless hours correcting the rudder fittings after having installed
the main bronze rod askew. My stubborness on not using wood has also
caused another inumerable working ours making a tiller out of
fibreglass and epoxy, tried carbonfibre first. Still not finnished.
Just stupidity. But kind of interesting. In many ways...


(As to my around-the-baltic-car-trip, it became somewhat of a failure.
We drove north, around the bay of Botnia, visiting the Santa Clause
theme park (!) at the polar circle just north of Rovaniemi. A
frightening experience. Than down through Finland, all the way to the
ferry bound for Tallinn, Estonia, where the finnish custom police
(guns everywhere) stopped us, because we didn't have the car's
registry papers in order. The estonians would keep the car in Tallinn,
they told us. So, home we went over the archipelago of &amp;#197;land.)

Kjell Karlsson