To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
Date: Thu, 9 Sep 2004 08:22:43 -0400
Subject: Re: chinerunners long

Great post Jack, very informative. I would think that you could weld a piece of pipe along the edge to get the radius.
Glen


Original Message:
From: John Gardiner 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Thursday, September 09, 2004 7:53 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: chinerunners long


No matter what size the chine runners would not be a difficult undertaking if fabricating from steel. period. you really do not want to use so many dissimilar materials. 

I will explain, I started work at a fabricating shop years ago, after being a carpenter for a few years, I was taught by an older master, he said to me, So, you like wood eh?? of course I said yes, he said well if you like wood youl love steel. he said, if you make a mistake and cut it short, you can just add more, can you do that with wood?? of course, no. Also you can form steel in many ways that you cannot do with wood. Here in R.I. we have many boat building yards, many that do steel, like for example Electric Boat in Groton Conn.and Quonsett point R.I. My late father was a 1st class pipefitter and he worked the main steam from the reactor 18" SS loop, Much of my lifes experience came from him. also did overhaul on many boats. subs are round and tapered, confined and must be GRADE A,  Also I have many many friends that have been employed by the same boat yards. some are structual welders and fitters. These shipyards over the years have seen many union strikes and layoffs, that spills alot of talent into the private sector. another of my buddies is a A.S.M.E cert boiler tube welder, most of his work is in confined spaces that he cannot actually see, most times a mirror is used, and the arc is passed non stop to the welder on the other side of the tube. alot of the tubes make turns and must be fabricated, much much much more complex than a chinerunner. I have posed these questions to these guys and they just laugh at me and say, you know the answer, dont kid yourself. now, the backyard builder would most likey be challenged, so, use wood. with todays tools ie plasma cutters,  grinders,small portable wire feed welders, that are not as expensive as they used to be, and can even be rented, its not out of reach.
also if you look around the internet you will find that alot of steel boats are being built in backyards, alot of the fabrication is far more challenging than "chinerunners" We used to send out 1 inch by 3 inch steel to have 1 inch holes punched in them every 6 inches for Iron fence and gates by a Iron worker machine, when they came back they looked like bannanas, so we would take them out side and with a 10 lbs sledge hammer and 2 guys beat them back flat. Also we would build spiral staircases with a nice long sweeping handrail, its just math!!! I could go on and on.

Jack

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
  ADVERTISEMENT
 
Yahoo! Groups Links

  a.. To visit your group on the web, go to:
  http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
    
  b.. To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
  paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
    
  c.. Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.