From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com, microcruising@yahoogroups.com
Subject: High winds and tacking a Paradox
Date: Tue, 14 Sep 2004 19:21:03 +0000

I have just returned from a rather exciting long weekend in Poole Harbour where the wind was rarely less than f5 (f9 was being forecast on Monday). I was very pleased to find that even with the sail furled to 50% we still made good progress to windward.

In the past I have had trouble with tacking - stalling head to wind and then falling off on the same tack again. This usually happened in restricted conditions where every foot counts. The problem became even more common with the reduced sail area. I had previously tried various arrangements of fixed ballast to try to correct this but had never been completely successful. On Sunday, faced with a two and a half mile beat, into the eye of the wind, up a quarter mile wide channel I had ample opportunity to experiment. And I found a reliable solution. Just before putting the helm over I would duck down into the cabin, thus moving my weight forward. We would come up into the wind with great alacrity. I would then regain my seat and we would fall off on the new tack. So far this technique has never failed.

Having got to the head of the channel and entered the river my usual procedure is to drop sail and scull the last mile as the river is too narrow and winding to sail up. I found, however, that I was completely unable to make headway into the wind, in fact I couldn't even keep pointing into the wind. 

I picked up a handy mooring and decided to wait to take advantage of the incoming tide which causes a slight upstream current for an hour or so. Unfortunately this would be at 5:30 on Monday morning. So after an early morning coffee there I was, in the dark, in the rain, in a wind if anything stronger than before still not going anywhere. I regained my mooring and sat dripping inside and decided I would have to call the boatyard for a tow. By 8:00 however the wind had dropped and I tried again with more success and by the time I reached the boatyard it was flat calm and the sun had come out. I didn't wait for the f9.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.