From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: microcruising@yahoogroups.com, paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 19 Sep 2004 10:36:21 +0000
Subject: More on Paradox tacking

After my trip last weekend, I realised that I still had the track information on my gps, so I downloaded it and did a bit of analysis.

I was most interested in the performance on a 2.5 mile beat up a narrow channel directly into the wind. The wind was blowing a f5 (measured) and the waves were up to about 2 ft at the mouth of the channel, to virtually flat at the head. I had the sail furled to about 50%.

Over 19 tacks we averaged a tacking angle of 130 degrees (change in heading though the tack). The worst tack was 150 degrees near the mouth of the channel and the best was 98 degrees at the head.

I did feel that the waves were holding me back, but I had earlier tried a couple of feet more sail and had decided we felt a bit overpowered. As it was the sailing was quite relaxed with the heel angle steady at the usual 20 degrees.

I was not in a hurry so was not trying too hard (I hadn't thought of using this information at that time), and on a few of the early tacks there was still the problem of failing to get through the tack on the first try and having to drop off to pick up speed.

I use the fact that the front of the sail starts to back or flutter if we come too close to the wind to indicate the best sailing angle. With a full sail up I feel we point higher than with it reefed, but I have no figures to back this up.

The other parameter that should be taken into consideration is my relative ignorance of sailing technique, and it is perfectly possible that someone else could do better than me.

I haven't mentioned tides here as there should have been very little, and what there was would have been against us at the start, dropping off later.

So there are some real figures from a real sail. I don't know if the performance will be considered good or bad, but I am happy with it - it got me where I wanted to go.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.