From: "Jack" <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 19 Sep 2004 16:11:10 -0000
Subject: The doctor will see you now

Hey All, 

I took my paradox out this morning, Narragansett bay forcast was 
for 10-15 knot winds, at dawn it was breezy, so I figured Il go for 
it. 

Well I launched in a sheltered cove and headed out got going and 
I fouled the reefing drum, so I beached on a windward beach, got 
everything in order and headed out around the point, got the gps out 
and went with the wind, once out of the cove the wind was blowing at 
about 30-40 mph sail was bout 1/2 reefed and she took off like a 
witch, next beach was about 1.5 miles away and Paul from the group 
was to meet me on that beach, He was going to try her out, take some 
pics....

I headed to him at about 6 mph on a broad reach everything 
was fine and she held fast, nice and comfortable, upon hitting the 
beach Paul was on it seemed that the wind had picked up even more as 
we met and starting chatting about the Paradox, My wife was on her 
way with dry clothes for me and my dry suit, I figured if I was 
going to beat to wind to get back Im going to need the dry suit to 
get off the beach, So I asked Paul, So you want to try her out, and 
all I saw was fear in Pauls eyes, and a long AHhh, I dont think so 
response, at that moment I came to my senses and had my wife bring 
me back to my truck.

I get back to the beach and backed the trailer 
onto the beach and start pulling the boat out. with 4 wheel drive my 
rear tires sunk, and I felt this is it, im not getting out of here. 
Then a jeep pulls up and asks, want some help? we got a tow rope out 
and started to pull, she went deeper, so i dug out the tires best I 
could and shoved the rudder blade of the paradox under the tire that 
was deepest, i rode up on it, and started to gain ground, next we 
were over the mean high tide mark!! 

thank god the rudder blade didnt 
even wince it saved me!! at that time there was a local police man 
keeping an eye on us, and a tow truck was circling the area hahhahhah.

Come to find out talking to the guy in the jeep, he works on a local 
tug and said YOU ARE NUTS, and asked where is the keel? i said there 
isnt one, he said centerboard? i said nope, I pointed out the 
chinerunners and he said we have them on some tugs, we call them 
rolling blades. 

At no time did I feel in danger inside the paradox, and i prob could 
have endured the trip back windward, im sure it would have been some 
work, however its my 3rd time out in it and I still have some 
finishing to do and why take the chance, Il live to sail another day.

Upon reaching home, the marine forcast and it says, Small craft 
advisory, 20-25 knt winds gusts to 30. 

Tomorrow I will go back to work, coincidence is, I am working in a 
shrinks office building walls, yesterday I made the comment, to bad 
im ok in the head, cause we could do the barter system, he said he 
would be glad to, Il have to take him up on that now.

Jack