From: "Paul" <kayaker37@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 19 Sep 2004 18:11:12 -0000
Subject: Re: The doctor will see you now

Jack,

You beat me to the review! I guess the two hour ride back gave you plenty of time to write :)

I got to Conimicut beach and didn't see any vehicles with trailers, so I called Jack on his cell to find out where he was because I wasn't all that sure I was on the right beach. He said he was heading in to where I was, and from my description, I was at the right spot. I could see no other boats out, and in at least 30mph winds who would be that nuts to go out? 

Another car was at what could be a launch area, and I confirmed with him that this was the only launch area on this beach. The guy in the car was previously a commercial fisherman, and I told him I was looking for a small sailboat. We both scanned the bay and did not see him, so I called Jack back, and he still said I was in the right spot and he was heading in. After a better description of where he was, the ex-commercial fisherman spotted the boat on the other side of the bay, which was tough as there were other boats moored in the bay, and with the sail reefed I first assumed it was another moored boat. 

I went and grabbed my camera, and changed into water shoes, so I could get some good pics of him coming in, as he hadn't yet gotten any on the water pics. Needless to say, once we got sight of him, it didn't take long till he sailed up onto the beach.

Crap, I thought you were kidding about me taking it out in that! You are nuts! If you wanted to sail it with me in the front of the cockpit, that would have been ok though! OK, I'm only slightly nuts. Good thing your wife did show up, and bring us back to reality.

Watching the Paradox, it really didn't have any problems except when it came time to bring it on to the trailer. Also a warning, if you are on the leeward side of the Paradox in even the slightest bit of water, best not to have your feet next to the chine runners when a gust of wind comes along. The boat kept jumping sideways in the gusts, and the narrow chine runners could easily crush your ankles.

Jacks description covers the trailering, and the rudder worked great as a ramp to get the right rear tire out of the hole. Well at least I got shots of the boat coming in, if not of getting the boat back on the trailer.

Let me know when the winds are down to say 20 knots next time!
Thanks for showing me the boat.

Paul