From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 03 Oct 2004 21:53:54 -0000
Subject: Re: Beach Cruising and Coastal Camping picture

Derek, 

I've been taking a ton of pictures of SWAMP THING, and I also have been taking notes on her dimensions; therefore, I'm hoping someday that it will be possible to duplicate the little boat. 

I hate to admit this, but I've actually started rebuilding the boat. I really wasn't supposed to tackle this project until the Spring time because I was right in the middle of fiberglassing LITTLE CRUISER. However, I just couldn't stand looking at the boat each day in the sad state she was in. Therefore, I poked around with a tiny screwdriver to see all that was wrong with her. What I found was quite a few rotten areas in both the plywood hull and the deck along with problems in the stem and the stern. So far I've cut away all the bad wood, and I'm in the process of splicing in new pieces and filling rotten areas with epoxy, fiberglass and microballoons. I also removed the skeg because the 20 year old galvanized bolts were pretty much rusted away. The spars, rudder and custom oars were also beaten up. I made a new blade for the rudder and another blade for an oar. There's still a ton of stuff to do to get this boat shipshape, but now I feel a little better that the job is on it's way. I'll probably start concentrating more on LITTLE CRUISER again because I want to get her all glassed up before the cold weather sets in. 

To be honest, I thought I'd be a lot farther along on my boating projects this year, but it seems that everything takes much longer than I ever think it will. All in all, though, I've been enjoying the experience, and I hope that this holds true for all of you who are working on your PARADOX microcruisers.

By the way, watch out for those belt sanders! I had my sander suck my thumb right into the machine. Usually it just sands some skin off when this happens. However, this time my thumb got jammed between the roller and the edge of the machine, and the skin got ripped internally. Oddly enough, I hardly lost any skin on the outside, but inside there was a big blood blister and some really bruised tissue. I obviously had to take some time off after that accident. All I can say to everyone is to BE CAREFUL while working with any tools.

Lastly, I've had problems (headaches) while working with epoxy indoors so usually I do it outside. When this is not possible I use a real face mask (like the ones people use for painting cars). I use the replaceable filters that are designed for paint and chemical of that type. These masks run about $30 to $40 in the U.S., and they are well worth the money. A mask is a heck of a lot cheaper than a trip to the hospital.

Dave