From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Epoxy
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2004 13:58:23 -0000

If you're planning to cover your PARADOX in fiberglass cloth then I would certainly go with epoxy resin and not polyester resin. Epoxy is much more waterproof, and it will probably last much longer (and not delaminate) if done properly. In regards to which epoxy to use, that is up to your own personal preference. You might want to check out System Three, Maas or Raka. For my project (LITTLE CRUISER and SWAMP THING), I got samples from System Three and Raka. At the moment I am using West System Epoxy because I am familiar with this epoxy, and I had a bunch on hand. I also found that it was less viscous than the System Three Epoxy I tried. I haven't gotten around to using my sample of Raka 127 resin and hardener, but I'm told that it is thinner than the other two resins I've used, and therefore it should be easier to wet out the glass with.

Before you tackle your fiberglassing, I'd like to pass on a little advice that I've learned so far. First of all, do yourself a favor and practice on smaller pieces like the rudder and the hatch. This will give you a feeling for how the epoxy handles, gels and hardens. Remember to mix the epoxy exactly as the manufacturer suggests using the appropriate pumps or measuring cups. Mix small batches at first and mix it thoroughly and completely. Don't let the epoxy sit too long after you are done stirring. Spread it onto your project before it gets warm and if it gels up and gets stiff before your are done using it, then don't hesitate to throw that batch away and start over. Never ruin your work over a few ounces of epoxy. For difficult corners like the edges of the hatch or the rudder blade, you might want to cut strips of fabric on the bias (ie at 45 degrees versus 90 degrees). Take your time and work all the bubbles out using a squeegee or a bubble roller. There are many good articles on the subject of laminating, and you might want to look around to see what you can find before beginning your project.

One last thing that I'd like to mention is that it is not absolutely necessary to cover your boat in glass, especially if it is going to be trailer sailed. For years Matt Layden just painted his boats, which proved sufficient for his purpose. LITTLE CRUISER and SWAMP THING are 17 and 19 years old respectively, and they are still around and sailing. Of course, SWAMP THING did suffer some rot damage from sitting in the water for the last few years in the Florida Keys. However, I found no rot whatsoever in LITTLE CRUISER when I stripped her down this year. 

I would say that if you are planning to keep your boat for a long time and you want the most in durability, then glassing is the way to go. On the other hand, if you want to save hundreds of dollars, then just paint the boat and go sailing. The choice is up to you, but do remember that it is a lot harder to glass the boat later on. At the moment, I'm just about ready to glass LITTLE CRUISER's hull and I'm still stripping down SWAMP THING's hull. I've gone through gallons of paint stripper, and I've spent weeks scraping and sanding. I'm really looking forward to getting this job completed. 

Finally, for those of you wondering if Matt and PARADOX #1 survived hurricane Frances and hurricane Ivan, the answer is YES. The eye of both hurricanes ran right over Matt's house in Jensen Beach, Florida. Fortunately, Matt spent the last few years beefing up his house so it went through the storm with little damage. Also PARADOX was pulled out of the water in time and brought home, and only a few small branches landed on her. 

Well that's about it for now. Dave