From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Epoxy & Fibreglass
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2004 22:38:10 -0000

The PARADOX plans call for 3 layers of 24 oz woven roving on the bottom and 6 -7.5 oz E glass on the topsides. This regimen will provide a tremendous amount of abrasion resistance on the bottom and some scuff resistance for the topsides. Of course all that woven roving is going to suck up a lot of epoxy so if you want to reduce the bottom layup, then you might just get away with only one layer, understanding of course that you won't be able to take too much pounding on the bottom. 

I personally wouldn't just seal the topsides in epoxy because I've found through experience that this won't be sufficient to prevent checking in fir plywood.  For this reason I am now covering both LITTLE CRUISER and SWAMP THING in fiberglass and epoxy.  Incidentally, my plans are to cover the topsides with 4 oz glass on both boats.  In addition, LITTLE CRUISER will get a layer of 5 oz kevlar along with a layer of 10 oz glass on her bottom. I've done some informal tests with this kevlar/glass layup, and it's amazing how much wear the kevlar can take. Even though I can get Kevlar for a fairly reasonable price as "seconds" from http://johnrsweet.com/Kevlar.html, I don't know if I'll use the kevlar on SWAMP THING because the stuff is still expensive.  I may just use several layers of 10 oz glass instead. I guess I'll decide what to do when I get there. 

Incidentally, LITTLE CRUISER'S rudder blade and centerboard are already covered with 6 oz S glass, and they also have up to two layers of 1.7 oz kevlar and one layer of 4 oz glass on their leading edges. SWAMP THING will have the same thing done to her rudder blade.  Of course a better way to protect the rudder is to put some bronze rod into the leading edge.  This is what Matt has done with his boat, and it is absolutely bombproof.  Well good luck with your PARADOX. 

From: "dclark52001" <dclark@w...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Epoxy & Fibreglass
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2004 23:32:34 -0000

On this business of epoxing or not. I'm getting a little confused. Obviously the bottom needs glassing to offset abrasion. What is the best cloth weight and type to use? Secondly, I hope to make use of the UK's inland canals and did think of glassing the sides against abrasion, but having seen Al Law's 'Little Jim' it looks to me that the chine runners would protect the sides. Do others agree? Finally, is it worth putting a coat of epoxy on the top and sides, without fibreglass, as a 'waterproofing' before painting?

I am using West Systems (easy to get) and am planning one or two extended liveaboard journeys measured in months and many shorter cruises but the boat will usually be trailered.

Thanks for any help.
Derek