From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 17 Oct 2004 16:56:17 -0000
Subject: Re: Epoxy & Fibreglass

Nels, you are correct in pointing out that Kevlar (aramid fiber) has great strength to weight ratio, but it also has excellent abrasion resistance.  To prove this to myself I laminated 2 layers of 6 oz fiberglass to one end of a paint stirring stick. On the other end I epoxied a layer of 6 oz glass and a layer of 5 oz kevlar underneath.  I then took this stick and rubbed it against a very rough street curb to simulate the boat rubbing along a sandy and rocky bottom. To my horror it only took about four or five swipes to completely abrade off the two layers of 6 oz E (electrical grade) glass.  Then I tried the other side of the stick.  The 6 oz glass rubbed off after two swipes, but the Kevlar was hardly touched.  I then kept sawing away at the Kevlar to see how much it could take.  After about 2 dozen passes, I was about half way through the fibers.  Amazing, simply amazing.  Of course there are other less expensive fabrics like Dynel and Xynole which might work as well, but I have no experience using these materials.  I think the Kevlar should work well for my application since LITTLE CRUISER'S bottom is already sufficiently heavy being 1" thick. The Kevlar and glass are there simply to provide some scuff and abrasion resistance.  In regards to Paradox, I wouldn't hesitate to apply 3 layers of woven roving if you needed a bomb proof bottom.  However, if you are just planing to use the boat for light duty like lake sailing, then a layer or two of 10 oz will most likely suffice.  

By the way, if you want to see some pictures of my rudder and centerboard after their leading edges were covered in Kevlar and fiberglass then just click on the links.  By the way, the simplest way to apply the 1.7 oz Kevlar and 4 oz glass fabric laminate is to first cut the fabric on the bias.  Next spray a light coat of 3M 77 to the edges of the board or rudder.  Next lay the Kevlar on the edge without pulling on the fabric since it will stretch very easily out of shape.  After the Kevlar, mist the fabric that is on the edge and apply another layer of Kevlar or glass.  Stagger the seams.  Finally, apply the epoxy with a brush or roller.  Oh yeah, the last link show a picture of LITTLE CRUISER Cruiser fully stripped.

http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20056r.jpg
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20066r2.jpg
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20067r.jpg
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20058r.jpg