From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 2004 16:24:05 -0000
Subject: FW: Re: Epoxy & Fibreglass - Retry

Before I applied the glass to the hatch, I first stripped it completely down to bare wood. Then I rolled on the epoxy (sealer coat) with a foam roller. Next I filled any imperfections with phenolic microballons. After sanding everything smooth, I tacked on the 4 oz fiberglass with 3M 77. The sides were done first. Then I used bias cut strips to do the "ribs." Finally the flat top sections were applied. Then it was just a matter of simply rolling on the epoxy. To be honest, I don't think I could have done it any other way that day because it was warm and I was really rushing to get everthing saturated properly before the epoxy kicked off. To eliminate trapped air I used a bubble roller and a squeegee. When everything was cured, I did a light sanding (avoiding the corners completely), and I put another filler coat on. I finished the hatch by sanding everthing smooth, especially where the various layers met. I also used superlight microballons and epoxy to even everything out nicely.

Here are some more pictures of the hatch.
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20050r.jpg
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20051r.jpg

Here is a shot of how the solar panel mount was done.
http://www.microcruising.com/Graphics/st20051r.jpg

Hi Dave,

This is really impressive and worth knowing about. Could you provide a few more details of the application?

What weight cloth are you using there? How did you prepare the hatch ahead of time? Did you sand it down to bare wood and then apply a coat of sealing epoxy first? This is what some builders do, and then apply the cloth while the sealer coat is still tacky. However this can be tricky, as it is difficult to move the cloth around very much. Is is easier when using the 3M do you think?

The seal coat prevents the weave filler coats from be absorbed by the wood and starving the wood/cloth interface.

That is the procedure used for building cedar strip canoes because the cedar is very absorbant. If done correctly there is supposed to be a molecular bond between the wood cells and expoxy that links with the cloth and it forms one continuous bond that is totally water and weatherproof.

The epoxy also adds an abrasive resistance to the cloth, especially if carbon is added to the final application of epoxy. On canoes this is only done on the very bottom.

Cheers, Nels