From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 18 Oct 2004 19:41:14 +0000
Subject: Re: FW: Re: Epoxy &amp; Fibreglass - Retry

Lastly, why even cover the boat in epoxy and fiberglass?  It sure seems like a lot of work and expense.  Well, it is.  I figure that when I'm done I will have spent about $400 per boat to complete the task.  What I hope to acheive by glassing both SWAMP THING and LITTLE CRUISER is to increase their overall durability and to reduce their yearly maintainence. Since both boats were originally just painted, they were more prone to damage from groundings and water damage (rot), and they showed evidence of this abuse all over their hulls. SWAMP THING even sank at the dock when her 1/2" thick bottom was pierced by a sharp rock at low tide. In addition, the fir plywood checked a great deal on both boats. This required that I spend a fair amount of time each year filling in the cracks aboard LITTLE CRUISER.  SWAMP THING did not receive the same meticulous care; and after 19 years, her decks were in rough shape.  There was a fair bit of rot in the deck and the stern suffered extensive damage.

My Paradox has just completed its second season. Anyone who knows me will be able to tell you that I do not cosset it. This weekend, between the rain I gave it was a quick looking over to see what needed doing over the winter. I was surprised to find that the only area that needs attention is on the bottom and that only needed attention at two places, near bulkhead 3 and up to a couple of inches in from the sides. This is the sum of numerous groundings on mud, sand, gravel, stones and rock. I am not sure at first glance if it needs more than the paint touching up.

I will probably give the whole boat another coat of paint, mostly because I didn't do a very good job of covering it in the first place, but it certainly wouldn't do it any harm to go another year without any external maintenance.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.