From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 21 Oct 2004 14:43:28 -0000
Subject: Re: Chine runner efficiency.

There are two major reasons why the chine runners work so well on Paradox and both have to do with the hull design. One reason is that the box hull resists sideways slippage better than any other hull shape to begin with. Matt discovered this from some of Phil Bolgers little box-shaped boats. These also had exterior chine logs which added even more resistance.

The second reason is that Paradox has a relatively deep hull amidships in relationship to the ends and a lot of rocker that is equal to the curvature of the sides. Therefore it can be immersed a lot deeper into the water without danger of the gunwales becoming submursed. This creates even more resistance to sideways slippage than a more "classic" shape. When most people see a Paradox it looks slow and chunky - not sleek at all. Yet when it is actually out on the water and heeled over, it turns into a very effecient underwater shape, with very little turbulence or eddying occuring.

If you can imagine a dory hull of about equal size and heel it you will notice two things. First there is a lot less hull resistance to sideways slippage because of the flare of the topsides. Secondly as soon as you put in enough ballest to get the hull deep enough, you have lost all your freeboard and will be in danger of swamping, if hit by a gust.

Another thing about a dory is that it is quite tender to begin with. Try standing on the gunwale of a dory and see how far it heels in comparision to a Paradox. This means that Paradox can actually carry more sail without heeling more than is necessary - which is just enough to present a vee shape in the water - a very effecient shape. Being able to carry more sail means better performance.

When Bolger started designing these types of hulls he said something like this. "What people don't realize is that the shape they don't 
like is the reason for the performance they do like". 

He did an entire article comparing a box hull to a dory hull. However he has no recent designs using chine runners. Most of his latest designs are much like Yrvinds, with a centerboard, either well forward or off-centred, and a bigger than normal rudder with an end plate that also prevents leeway. End plates on rudders work like chine runners on hulls. His most ambitious design has a swing keel with and end plate that remains horizontal to the water no matter what position the keel is. 

However that is not to say that one cannot try chine runners on any design. On some of Matts larger ones he proposes both a centreboard and chine runners. This way you get the advantage of the runners in water that is too shallow to have the board down and the centreboard when in deeper water. Or if you don't have as much weight on board as you need to get the runners down.

Cheers, Nels