From: Alastair <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 2004 18:36:25 +0000
Subject: Re: My Paradox

Looking good so far!

I see that you have the same problem as me width wise. Very good for the stomach muscles all that pulling them in to get past.

Can you get the hull out during construction? If not you are going to have to be inventive when it comes to turning the boat back over. Getting it upside down to put the bottom on is easy as two people can lift it, however once the bottom is on it gets a lot heavier. I managed mine with a couple of pairs of roller skates and some luck.

Once you get the stem on the whole thing becomes quite rigid, not all floppy like it is now.

Keep going, and keep us posted.

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: dclark52001 <dclark@woden.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 2004 11:28:58 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] My Paradox

Hi all
I have just posted 4 pictures to Photos: So-So that show the current state of my Paradox build. Keen eyed observers and readers of Don's Build Book will see that I have deviated from the text. I have had so much trouble getting the shape of the stem right and then pulling the bow in to meet it that I have given up on that stage of the build for a bit. I wasn't making progress so I decided to assemble bulkheads 2, 3 and 4 into a square box using the floor panels and temporary bin sides. I checked the diagonals to confirm squareness and then glued, cramped and nailed the sides to those 3 bulkheads. That is the stage that the photos show. Checking this morning I find that the diagonals between 2 and 3 and 3 and 4 are within 2mm of each other which seems close enough. To the starboard of the boat will be seen my most important work tool: a green stool. Upon this noble seat I sit and ponder, pontificate or procrastinate as the need takes me. It is mounted on a trolley with 4 castors which means I can do these things either backwards and forwards or side to side. If I stand up and sit down again I can do the 3 P's in 3 Dimensions. If accompanied by a coffee and a cluch of Garibaldi biscuits all decision making seems to turn out ok in the end. I find that Tamla Motown, Stax Soul or Van Morrison are also good aids to the working process. Not all our tools need be razor sharp! Any messages of support gladly received. I'm now off to fit bulkhead 1 and finish the transom. Then the problem of the stem becomes unavoidable. Best wishes....Derek

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.