From: "dclark52001" <dclark@woden.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 25 Oct 2004 18:33:53 -0000
Subject: Re: My Paradox

Thanks Nels and Al

Well, Bulkhead 1 is in, glued, cramped and nailed and I'm sitting here with a large G &amp; T. Actually, it's my second one 'cos there was a lot of ice left after the first and it seemed a shame to waste it.

Nels, I've tried the Spanish windlass in fact I used one to pull the sides in for bulkhead 2, but the angles and curves at the front are very difficult to grip against. By the way, if a Spanish windlass slips the piece of wood don't half revolve fast. Sort of sneaks up on you and whacks your head or knuckles! I reckon that if the Armada had used those against our ships instead of poorly made cannon we might all be Catholics here in England. Ratchet straps are much safer.

Al, you've seen my stomach muscles and it would take a Spanish windlass to pull them in! I get by sideways on tip toe and that leaves the top of the boat below my belly. Yes, I can turn the boat outside the garage doors. They open onto a West Mids lawn (concrete) of about 30' by 12'. My pondering trolley is going under the boat once the bottom is on. Then I'll have trouble tip toeing past. I'll have to make some stilts.

Tomorrow I intend to finish the transom in the morning and fit it in the afternoon. That's assuming that I wake up before the afternoon of course.

Now that bulkhead 1 is in I'm lookin at the stem and thinkinking that it would be easy to cut a piece of 18mm ply, stitch and glue the sides to it, ring nail it as well, and finish it with a false proboscis screwed and shaped in situ. Not a la bible, but easier and I'm fed up with hard.

Lastly, the bottom. I'm seriously considering butt jointed. Using 8' sheets of 18mm ply I can butt either behind bulkhead 2 or just in front of 3. I'm not fitting water tanks, that space will be extra storage, so there are no problems of integrity. The bottom will be covered in 45 degree bi axial cloth and a coat of resin and finishing oosits. Any thoughts?

Cheers all.....Derek