From: "Jeff Please" <doryman_uk@lineone.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Paradox 1.1
Date: Thu, 10 Jan 2002 23:46:26 -0000

Hi all,

Several years ago I launched a 16 foot double ended rowing skiff to my own design. I was quite proud of it, but people kept asking me, 'can you put an outboard motor on it?'. I always told them if you want to use a outboard motor, buy a boat designed to take one. I eventually sold the skiff, and the first thing the new owner did was.... cut the stern off and fit a four horse power motor. Two would have been more than enough.

Does anyone understand the moral of this story. PARADOX is unique. As a micro sailing system she works very well. The boat has more than proved its self on the open seas, mainly through the skippers foresight. If one can honestly say their sailing will be more dangerous than anything PARADOX has been through, look to another boat.

I can understand designing a larger PARADOX, but to add bilge keels, why when there are umpteen designs out there with bilge keels ready to be built. Just think through the implications of fitting bilge keels to PARADOX. She would be slower through extra drag from the keels. The mounting of the keels would require extra internal structure. The new boat would draw a lot more water when heeled and have more leeway, look a the photo's taken by Glen looking aft while sailing. The leeway shown is nothing, which proves that the chine runners really work. The hull shape is really wrong for bilge keels, think about it. A chine boat would be better. Launching a bilge keel boat from a trailer would be a pig compared to a flat bottomed boat like PARADOX. 

Why is someone talking about fixing copper or steel to the bottom of the boat. Is it to help antifouling or stability, or is it to protect the crafts bottom. Sound like someone wants to sail over dry land to me. In the UK we have an epoxy/copper coating called COPPERBOT. Four coats of that, and the boat should not need anti-fouling for ten years or so.

I enjoy designing and building small craft to my own designs, but the design of PARADOX for its intended purpose I cannot fault. But in the UK we don't have your fourteen foot rule, so I would stretch the design to sixteen feet while keeping the beam, draught and displacement approximately the same. I would designing a new hull from scratch to obtain this, but the rig etc would be the same as drawn on PARADOX. The new boat would be faster by about half a knot. 

Jeff UK