From: "Glen C. Mxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Atlantic trip
Date: Thu, 13 Jan 2005 08:36:10 -0800

As some of you know, We purchased a farm last year with a deplorable house and in need of a lot of attention. I have been busy building a cabin for us to live in , a barn for the horses, and a work shop for myself. All is going well and I hope to have every thing done by July of this year.

During May & June I took off time to sail across the Atlantic with Chris Morejohn. I have been trying to put together a short article about the trip but have not touched it for many weeks. Nels and Kellan have given me the impetuous to get back to it, so hopefully I will have some thing for you as soon as time allows. I haven't even had time to take Zo out since my return and there are some things I want to compare in her characteristics to those of Hogfish Maximus.

Briefly, it was a great trip and the boat behaved beautifully. There were some issues with it that were less then desirable to me, a too small cockpit for example, and I will touch on those in the report. As for pounding, it just wasn't an issue. I have been on fin keelers which pounded far worse. I can say that it was one of the most comfortable boats I have ever been to sea in and I have been aboard many. As a point of reference, I delivered a Hans Christan 38 from the Virgin Islands to Jacksonville some years ago.The sailing conditions were the same as those experienced during a portion of the Atlantic trip (broad reaching in 12-15 kts) and I would take the the Hogfish any day over it. The HC rolled so badly that sleeping was near impossible were as the Hogfish's motion was very comfortable with almost no rolling (something I have experienced on Zo as well).

Chris wanted me to stress the fact that while the Hogfish Maximus is similar to what an enlarged Paradox would look like, it is not a scaled up version but a product of his own design efforts which were arrived at from a different learning curve then the one Matt Layden used. Another distinction that he wanted to make is that these boats are not sharpies in that traditional sharpies have low sheers, low centers of gravity and different sailing qualities, thus the term "Modified Sharpie".

Must get back to the farm work now but I promise to get back to the trip report.

Tailwinds
Glen