From: "Glen C. Mxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Atlantic trip (Jesse Cooper)
Date: Sat, 15 Jan 2005 06:50:37 -0800

The comparison file was added by another member, I personally have no experience or knowledge of the Jessie Cooper with the exception of what has been mentioned here. From the looks of the file I would have to say that the basic hull forms are similar.
HM does have a Dagger board and the only time we used it was when we were on the wind. One of the traits I didn't like in her was lack of longitudinal stability. There were many times when I would have liked to have had the board down some while reaching or running to help hold course when hand steering ( we had a lot of trouble with the wind vane and the auto pilot wore out after about three days) but Chris didn't like the noise (clunk, clunk) the board made when pressure was applied and relaxed off the wind. A better fitting board would have done away with the problem. HM would hold course with little or no input from the helm for long periods of time then occasionally diverge or I would over correct and then it would take a few minutes of chasing the course before settling down again. I will go on record here as a person who hates to steer and as one who is not the best at it unless I see a real reason for holding a good course, as in racing, when I'm cruising I would rather read a book or just watch the water go by. Steering a compass course for hours on end is pure drudgery. I have back up auto pilots on all my boats and am trying to work out a reliable wind vane for Zo. Having said that, HM's lack of longitudinal stability off wind may be purely subjective. Chris never complained of any difficulty but he is very subjective of his designs.
As mentioned earlier, I want to take Zo out for a while and see how she compares in that regard. I have come up with a 300 mile course in the Gulf of Mexico which will never have me more then about 50 miles from port and whose longest leg will be 100 miles. My plan is to sail it non stop but have the option to jump in to port if problems arise. This will give me three to four days at sea to evaluate her performance relative to HM's and I will be better prepared to give you an objective report. All I need is to find the time and weather window that coincides with it. More to follow....
Glen

---

From: Nels
Subject: Re: Atlantic trip (Jesse Cooper)
Date: January 17, 2005

My mention of Jesse Cooper was actually to a file that Glen posted in which he compared the hull shapes of Little Cruiser and Paradox and how Jesse Cooper also compared.
Hogfish Maximus is an interesting design and the most intriguing name I have ever seen for a boat!

Cheers,
Nels