From: David Finch <salutlemec@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Tue, 8 Mar 2005 14:59:29 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Anybody there?

the method you describe for weighting the rudder is great, i've used it on several occasions in the past on various designs. i gave your 'swamp thing' photos a good look also, such a trim little boat, are there any blueprints knocking around for it? just curious. i'm trying to find the smallest cruiser design i can.
thanks for the photos. good luck, it looks like you've had your work cut out for you!

From: Dave Bolduc <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
I've been busy working on another Matt Layden design, Swamp Thing. The bottom of the boat was in really rough shape so last week I just removed it. Of course I had to first pull 133 ring nails and then I needed to cut out all the plywood from in between the frames. After I knocked off all the remaining 1/2" plywood, I used a belt sander to grind down to the plywood/mahogany chine log glue line. You can see more pictures of the boat at http://www.microcruising.com/Refit5.htm.

By the way, I recently made a new rudder blade for Swamp Thing; however, I attached the lead for it in a slightly different manner than the method shown in the Paradox plans. Instead of using wood screws, I beveled the hole on both sides to lock in the lead. Matt Layden used this method on both Swamp Thing and Little Cruiser (blade and centerboard), and the technique works well when the lead weight is located some distance away from the trailing edge. You can see more pictures of this method in the Files Section under "Rudder Blade."

Lastly, I found that when I melted the lead for the rudder project, it was important to first start off with a small amount of this metal. Then as more lead melted and the overall quantity grew, I could gradually increase the amount of lead I put in the pot at one time. Well, that about it. Hope everyone is working hard on their  Paradox so that they can be ready by summer.

Yahoo! Groups SponsorADVERTISEMENT 

Yahoo! Groups Links
To visit your group on the web, go to: http://groups.yahoo.com/group/paradoxbuilders/
To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to: paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.

Do You Yahoo!? Tired of spam? Yahoo! Mail has the best spam protection around http://mail.yahoo.com