From: Alastair <openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 08 Mar 2005 22:09:15 +0000
Subject: Re: Anybody there?


Just a note on melting lead, I discovered that if you are melting old pipe that any moisture in the pipe (I think that is what it was anyway) can cause the pipe to behave like a gun and fire a slug of molten lead. A 6 inch length of pipe threw the lead about 10 feet. So point any pipe away from you.


From: Dave Bolduc <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 08 Mar 2005 21:31:16 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Anybody there?
Send reply to: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com


I've been busy working on another Matt Layden design, Swamp Thing. The bottom of the boat was in really rough shape so last week I just removed it. Of course I had to first pull 133 ring nails and then I needed to cut out all the plywood from in between the frames. After I knocked off all the remaining 1/2" plywood, I used a belt sander to grind down to the plywood/mahogany chine log glue line. You can see more pictures of the boat at http://www.microcruising.com/Refit5.htm.

By the way, I recently made a new rudder blade for Swamp Thing; however, I attached the lead for it in a slightly different manner than the method shown in the Paradox plans. Instead of using wood screws, I beveled the hole on both sides to lock in the lead. Matt Layden used this method on both Swamp Thing and Little Cruiser (blade and centerboard), and the technique works well when the lead weight is located some distance away from the trailing edge. You can see more pictures of this method in the Files Section under "Rudder Blade."

Lastly, I found that when I melted the lead for the rudder project, it was important to first start off with a small amount of this metal. Then as more lead melted and the overall quantity grew, I could gradually increase the amount of lead I put in the pot at one time. Well, that about it. Hope everyone is working hard on their Paradox so that they can be ready by summer.

Dave


Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.