From: "Dave Bolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 2005 20:14:39 -0000
Subject: Removable back window for Paradox

Several people have asked me about installing a removable back window on their Paradox micro-cruisers; therefore, I've decided to post my views on the subject here.

I believe that the main reason that Matt decided to make the back window permanent was to improve the overall strength of the cabin by making it an integral part of the structure. Additionally, I think he was concerned that a loose back window might let in a sizeable amount of water around its edges should the boat get pooped or rolled over.  I believe that for these two reasons alone a permanent window makes a lot of sense.

Nonetheless, I can't overlook the fact that Little Cruiser with her fully removable back window has never been pooped, knocked down or even rolled in all the thousands of miles that she has been cruised.  Of course, this is not to say that it cannot happen the next time she is sailed, but it is safe to say that it is an unlikely event in the conditions that Mindy and I generally encounter on East Coast of the U.S. or in the Bahamas.

Still, when we have sailed in really rough conditions during our winter cruises, the thought of bonding the rear window in securely with 3M 5200 to gain the aforementioned benefits has crossed my mind once or twice. Nonetheless, over the years I've also discovered that there were quite a few noteworthy reasons for leaving it the way it is was originally designed.

To begin with, when the window is removed, it is easier and safer for the crew to enter and leave the boat. I've also found that when it is taken out it is simpler to reach across the rear deck to handle such things as the controls of our outboard motor.  Most importantly, by not having a permanent window a lot more air enters inside, making life aboard more comfortable especially in the tropics. 

Since I thought these were good enough reasons for having a removable rear window aboard Little Cruiser, I decided to put up a webpage at http://www.microcruising.com/lcwindow.htm to show the details our setup. 

In conclusion, I have to say that for most people I'd recommend that they still build their Paradox boats according to Matt Layden's plans; however, for some intrepid builders, the modification of a removable rear window may provide them with additional comfort at the expense of maximum seaworthiness.