From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 08 May 2005 08:01:31 -0400
Subject: Re: Mainsheet and outboard

You will also notice in the sailing pic that the boom is very low to the water, actually in the water! I built the mk2 sail and was not sure on the yard attachment point, its a bit too far forward, and it leaves a crease at the top and does not lift the rear of the sail as it should, going to make some adjustments to the yard and sail to correct this, as it should trim out as the pics of Matt's paradox in strong winds looks. Most likely it will reef easier. This measurement is not given exactly. Glenn added a modified topping lift to help this, I may go that route. Over the winter I was on a house remodeling project and salvaged about 60 20 foot long fir 2X6's and 2X8's that were rafters, the house was built in the '40s, you can see the difference in lumber grades from back in the day, to today.....lots of free spar wood!! at 20 ft long that would be excellent chine log material for the 19 foot paradox.

I don't think you would gain much from the boom, perhaps a few inches, at a loss of leverage, but remember that it will change sail geometry and the boat may not sail as well, Matt has a VERY well thought out cruiser. I often give the junk rig thoughts, might work well on the Paradox.

I added a simple motor mount offset to the starboard side, works well and helps keep the motor away from the rudder and transom. Also, I can get the motor to sit down easier without it hitting the rear deck. The problem I have and I am sure others do is the sheet getting fouled in the rudder or motor when you do not pay close attention to it, and that's usually when you are distracted with other tasks, and can be a pain to square away while underway. I often wonder if you could use a hula-hoop in that area to help. I need more tiller time, but not this weekend, nor'easter here and gale force winds.

Good luck with your Paradox Derek, looking forward to hearing about your adventures!!

Jack