From: Brent Geery <fasttimes@mochamail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 27 May 2005 18:57:49 -0700
Subject: Introduction

Hi, just a quick introduction and a couple of thoughts.

Well I feel I know you all already, after reading through all the messages in paradoxbuilders, paradoxboatbuilders, and microcruising lists.

I already have Don's construction book, and the plans just showed up today. I want to start building in the in the fall. I'm in Los Angeles, so winter building is better than building in 100 degree heat.

I'm an apartment dweller, so I'm going to have to construct the boat in the space for a outside car parking spot; about 8 feet X 15 feet, with additional temporary room available just to the front of this spot.

The intend is to stay mostly to the plan, but I will probably deviate in the cabin area, making smaller and thicker windows. I also plan on a more waterproof boot for the tiller, and I may eliminate the stern port.

Another change I'm planning is the water tank construction. From what I have read, it's easy to make tanks out of cut up poly sheets and a plastic welder like http://www.harborfreight.com/cpi/ctaf/Displayitem.taf?itemnumber=41592.

I notice that most are using LEDs for a mast light, has anyone thought of using Cold Cathode Fluorescent (CCFL)? The advantage is CCFL's are over three times more efficient than the best white LEDs-- 80 lumens per watt vs 23 lumens per watt! CCFL are also dimmable like LEDs. The disadvantages of CCFL's are they won't start below -4F/-20C (but this is much better than standard fluorescent,) the ballast *may* be a source of radio frequency interference, and CCFLs they have a life of about 25K-50K hours (vs the theoretical 100K life for LEDs.) http://www.elwirecheap.com/coldcathodes.html sells complete kits for $12 and http://www.j-right.com/html/ccfl_lcd_backlighting.htm has some info.

What insulation are most using for their project? From most of the pictures I have seen, most seem to be using the white expanded polystyrene (EPS.) However, this stuff will absorb water (killing the insulation value more than the flotation properties) and I would think that at least extruded polystyrene (XEPS-- the blue or pink stuff) would be a much better choice, especially if you are sealing it against the wood (epoxy sealed or not) like in the plans.

PS: Does anyone know of good sources for quality plywood at a reasonable price in the Los Angeles area?

-- 
BRENT - The Usenet typo king. :)