From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 08 Jun 2005 07:49:45 -0400
Subject: Re: Questions regarding Paradox plans.

Brent Geery wrote:
- The term "P&amp;S" are used throughout the plans; but what does it mean?
port ansd starbord

- How many yards of 38" wide woven roving (three layers on
bottom) and 50" 6.0 oz fiberglass matte (one layer everywhere
else) to order?  I estimated 28 yards and 20 yards respectively,
with plenty of extra scrap.  Enough?  *Way* too much?
I used Biax, so I dont know

Why did you use biax over roving?  I might as well, depending.
Sorry for the potentially dumb question, but I have never worked
with fiberglass or epoxy before.  I see biax has a matt backing;
are multiple layers of biax ok like with roving?
I used 12 oz biax, no mat backing, mat backing is a no no with epoxy, it 
will not become part of the matrix. they say biax is many times stronger 
than roving for the wieght. this also depends on how you plan to use the 
boat, ie, lakes ponds... ocean.. I have a 19 foot powerboat made with 
it, and I beach it and hit rocky beaches on ocasion as i dive off of it, 
and I have not worn thru it anywhere. also uses less epoxy, and filling 
the weave is not a big issue, actually less than WR, but thats my 
experience. I personally would rather do 1 layer than 3. epoxy isnt 
cheap. biax would go on fine for almost anybody with little experience, 
as the bottom of the paradox is flat!

- As far as I can tell, the length of the mast, boom and yard are
not given in the plans-- Especially if using the new sail that
Matt designed.
I used 1 by 4 inch doug fir porch flooring, clear, 16 footers, work in
metric it is easier.

OK, so 16 feet is your finished mast length (ignoring the
lighting rod)?  That's what I'm most curious about.
16 feet was the rough length I started with. To be stowable in the boat 
thru the stern hole, it has to be a bit shorter than the boat, I cannot 
remmeber the length exactly.

- Is a continuous/piano hinge used on stateroom sole hatch, just
like the cabin sole hatches,  or standard hinges?
I used piano hinge, your going to be standing on that door.

No, no, not the cabin hatches, but instead the forward
"stateroom" hatch.  Continuous/piano hinge as well?
Thats what I would use, they are easier to line up than 2 reg hinges.