From: "openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com" 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Thu, 09 Jun 2005 11:15:57 +0100 
Subject: Re: Questions regarding Paradox plans.
 

On 7 Jun 2005 at 15:11, Brent Geery wrote: 

- How many yards of 38" wide woven roving (three layers on 
bottom) and 50" 6.0 oz fiberglass matte (one layer everywhere 
else) to order?  I estimated 28 yards and 20 yards respectively, 
with plenty of extra scrap.  Enough?  *Way* too much? 

I got my glass on 50" wide rolls. This allows you to lay a single 
sheet on each of bottom sides and deck without having any joins. Do 
the deck before the cabin goes on. 


- Is a continuous/piano hinge used on stateroom sole hatch, just 
like the cabin sole hatches,  or standard hinges? 

I used the same Piano hinge. If I were doing it again I would replace the cabin hinges with something less affected by mud and grit, a webbing hinge perhaps.


- How are the shelves mounted (I'm assuming) the bin sides? 

Just an epoxy butt joint with epoxy fillets


- I don't at all understand how the "metal angle" shown on page 5 is to be used, or attached.  Can someone please go into further detail of this?  What length angle to get, and is that 1"x1" angle iron? 

I bent up a bit of stainless about an inch long, 


There seems to be lots of plywood parts listed in the plans that 
are not shown on the "10 sheets" of plywood.  In other words, am I 
going to need to buy more plywood to make the following parts: 

- 9mm ply for stateroom bin side 
- 9mm ply for stateroom "divider" 

Both on 9mm sheet labelled "Fore. Bin Sides" 


- 12mm ply for "breast hook" piece 

I think I used a bit of left over 18mm 


- 12mm ply for two deck scabs 
- 12mm ply for vent trunk baffle 

Plenty of left over scrap for these 


- 18mm ply for vent trunk sides/front 

This comes from the left overs. I think I reordered the cutting by flipping one of the rudder pieces and moving it to the left. 

I also reorganized the lay-out of the sheet with the transom as it was too narrow to cut as drawn.


- ??mm ply for aft bin dividers (Also, what mm ply is used?) 

I used 6mm. I bought an extra sheet of 6mm so that i could make the cabin roof without the joint, so had lots left over. If you are anything like me you will want to try various arrangements here so don't worry about getting it right first time. 


Other than the extra 6mm sheet I didn't need to buy any more ply. 

Hoping for calm nights 

Al Yeovil, England.