From: "" <openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 11 Jun 2005 14:50:50 +0100
Subject: Re: Scale mockup of wind genny and radar on Paradox

On 10 Jun 2005 at 1:31, Brent Geery wrote:

On Thu, 09 Jun 2005 12:14:56 +0100, ""
<openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com> wrote:

I have a 12V wet NiCad battery (I was given it in 1977 when it was replaced under routine maintenance from the coal industry). I charge it up in the spring and it powers my gps, echo sounder, lights and water ballast/bilge pump all season without further attention. What will you have on board that will need so much more power?

I suppose if you have the radar it makes more sense.

Lucky you, with the industrial NiCads.  Finding correct chargers
can be a pain, but they are really nice to use, and they last
almost forever.

I just use a cheap car charger. The battery was deemed scrap 28 years 
ago,
so what harm can I do to it now?

I'm going to be full-timing onboard for a few years, and I really
could not live happily without my electronic toys-- laptop and
Internet, movies (with surround sound), music files and satellite
radio, digital photography and photo editing, electronic books,
ect.  So, I want to make sure I can generate ample electricity
(add wind genny, plus my solar panels I already own.)

Plus the excess electricity can be put to good use.  For example,
I plan on having 12V electric heaters onboard.  When the weather
gets cold and nasty, and the batteries are already topped off,
I'll have electric heating available to keep me warm without
worrying about using all the propane (and the moisture created
from heating from propane.)  As long as the weather is bad, I
have a nice dry heat to keep me comfortable.

I'm also looking into building a small 12V watermaker that I can
use at anchor or good weather-- throw the intake/waste hoses
overboard, and enjoy "free" water provided by your current excess
electricity generation.

Anyway, those are a few ideas for using all that electricity.  I
agree, If you are just weekend sailing, a wind genny would be a
total waste.

On my first coastal trip I made a tactical error that ended up with 
me being in a fast tide with wind against tide conditions (I was 
close hauled going with the tide). The Paradox handled the conditions 
with no fuss, I handled the conditions slightly less well (but I am often 
sick on the first day out), However there was a large quantity of green 
water passing right over the cabin. I decided then that storage on the 
foredeck (fuel, outboard etc) was not on. In those conditions it would either 
be washed off or would be inoperable afterwards.

It may be that you never sail close to those sort of conditions (on 
the south coast of the UK they are common) but if you are relying on 
your electricity supply for safety functions I would be tempted to test 
the installation with a fire hose before setting off.

Live the dream, don't die for it.

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.