From: Brent Geery <fasttimes@mochamail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 14 Jun 2005 03:51:49 -0700
Subject: Re: More Paradox Plans Questions

On Mon, 13 Jun 2005 23:22:33 +0100, <openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com> wrote:

Well I thought I had a grip on things, but bulkhead 1 &amp; 2 have me confused.

Looking on page 7 the stateroom sole is intended to sit on the lower floor frame of bulkhead 1 and a cleat on bulkhead 2. However, these two supports are not level, and the stateroom floor being out of level can be seen on page 4.  The difference in height is about 20mm.  If the sole is not level, it would seen to make it impossible to use the sole hatch, as it would brush against the bulkhead as it was opened.  It seems that the cleat on bulkhead 2 should be raised, to allow the floor be level.  

I hadn't noticed this before. It does, however, explain why I had to shave about 5mm off the corner of the hatch. It doesn't cause a problem until the hatch is nearly full open as the corner of the hatch is sticking through the doorway till then. I shaved it off so that it still catches when fully open as this holds the hatch up while rootling around inside.

If you raise the cleat I would also raise the bottom of the door as the small step there is useful in preventing stuff sliding out.

Good idea. I'm thinking you could also raise the cleat only 10mm, and then shave 10mm off the bulkhead 1 floor member. I think raising the cleat 20mm is the better idea as I'm not keen on the idea of shaving wood of a main structural member!

The location of the tank vent and mast ground shown on page 3 and 4 would also seem to also interfere with the operation of the sole hatch, as they are shown protruding from bulkhead 2.

I ran my vent pipes horizontally to port, below the hatch, past the central divider before bringing them up the bulkhead.

That's what I was thinking as well, but I have to make sure my batteries wont interfere with them then.  I'm using larger batteries than on most Paradoxes, so it's going to be tight right in that area.  In any case, I don't think it will be a problem to find a route for those vents.

BTW, on page 7 Matt left out all the cleats on bulkhead 1 intended to secure the bin sides.  And it's contradictory if there is even a bin on the port side.  On page 3 and 4 no port side bin is shown, but on page 7 bulkhead 2 shows cleats for a port side bin.  A little confusing.

On bulkhead 1 I worked out the cleats should be [120]mm to port and 220mm to stbd of the centre line.

There is no port bin forward of bulkhead 2, just a (nearly) central divider 120mm to port of the centre line. The cleat on bulkhead 2 (sheet 7) shown 390mm to port is for the bin aft of the bulkhead.

Ah, then there is a different small error on the bulkhead 2 plans.: Where is says "12x19 Cleats P&amp;S" there are arrows pointing at both the fore and aft bin side cleats on the starboard side.  That says there should be a port side bin.  So, the arrow pointing to the fore starboard side cleat should not be there.

Finally, I could use some help clarifying the dimensions of the outboard bulkhead cleats (the side ones against the hull panels.) The plans show them as 25mmx35mm but then a bevel is shown along the side; for example 7mm for bulkhead 2.  Do I move the cleat outboard by 7 mm or plane the board 7mm wider than the 35mm shown in the plans?

Yes, fit the cleats further out (or make them wider, it really doesn't matter). I would suggest that you don't try to finish the bevels until the trial fit of the sides. I calculated the exact angle, and cut them perfectly, and then had to put in some packing pieces as I had taken off too much. Still, epoxy fills all the gaps and you can't see the mistakes when it is painted :->

Ouch, lol.  I'll go with making them wider, as I hate the idea of having to shave off anything structural.

Thanks again Al.  I'm probably driving everyone nuts with the questions, but they really are helpful.

-- 
BRENT - The Usenet typo king. :)