From: "futabachan" <futabachan@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Head options
Date: Fri, 25 Jan 2002 02:53:19 -0000

I've been squinting at Don's sketches and the study plans, trying
to figure out where to put a MSD.  I've come up with variations on 
two themes:

 1) deploy it under the helm seat, possibly stowing it aft, or
 2) put it up forward in the second compartment.

My original concept for 1) was to build a little square hollow 
under the center of the helm seat, stealing some space from both
food compartments, and to put a lexan or plexiglass panel in the
bottom of it.  I'd also have a removable cover that could be
deployed over it at night when the bedding was unrolled.  The
head could sit in the compartment while we were underway, and
be stowed aft at night, unless we slept with our heads forward.
I'd probably have to widen the opening leading aft for the concept
to work.

Another possibility would be to put the head under the port side
of the helm seat, and slide it aft through an opening into the
compartment where the anchors are on the sketches.  Since I'm
adding a heavy object aft, I should then be able to get away with
sealing bulkhead #1 completely, and using the space forward of it
as a chain locker, with access up to the deck only.  I'd need to
cut another big opening in bulkhead #4, and would probably want
to deck over the top of that quarter compartment, to keep water
out of the cabin, and it would generally be a pain.  And it would
make getting the balance port-to-starboard that much more complex.
However, it would let one crew member use the head underway while
the other worked the helm.

A third option for theme 1 would be to give the helm a permanent
seat, put the head in the center of it (or port side) with a couple
of small lockers to either side, and push the forward edge of the 
berths forward by a couple of feet.  That would require a rethink 
of the ventilator, and force the crew to sleep with the mast step
between their feet, as on the "long cabin" 23 footer.  That also
opens up bulkhead #2, and forces a rethink of the layout of the
second compartment.

The second major theme involves putting the head in the second
compartment.  The original concept for this was to install a
foredeck hatch, and to put the head directly underneath it.  The
foredeck hatch would improve the ventilation, but would add to 
the cost, and it would be awkward getting up there to use the
head.  And it couldn't be used at all in a storm.

The other possibility would be to extend the opening through
builkhead #2 down to the flooring, and put the head immediately
forward of it, to be pulled into the cabin for use.  That leaves
it free to slide around when used in heavy seas, though, unless
some sort of means of securing it were rigged.

Stretching the design would fix the problem without requiring 
any major boat surgery, but I really would like to stick to the
original length, to stay below the 14' limit.

Does anyone have a better idea?

 -- Sue --
(and is a transcript of the text on the study plans available?  I 
can't read any of the writing, given the small size of the images)

Susan Davis <futabachan@yahoo.com>