From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 01 Jul 2005 20:27:36 -0400
Subject: Re: paradox mpeg movie

Thanks Glen,

Im still completing alot of the interior, not to mention you have set the bar quite high with Zoe. I have been finishing up the hatch, seemed to take forever, Incredibly strong. I have been using white oak and some real nice mohogany to finish the interior, still a work in progress. I also replaced the windows and used uncured rubber as a bedding, it is black and I have noticed that I get less glare, and a better seal. I put a few new pics up on my website and I plan to post more soon. I also plan on taking more sailing movies from another boat to get better shots since bitcommet really seemed to work well for serving the movies. I am going to put up a new torrent file tonight, this is a movie of us beaching, please excuse my wifes camera abilitys, hehehhehe, she sticks her thumb over the lens at the worst moment and does not flim long enough to get a good look at the Paradox while on the beach, she was very excited to hear how it went.

Some details on the movies,

During these shots we are motoring, I have a 6 hp mounted on a folding aluminum bracket, works great! throttle is set at a crack over idle. Motor sailing is great in the paradox. we even tried with the motor down and off and she also did very well considering the drag, heeled the other way and she sailed perfectly. The water ballast tanks are empty in these movies also, im sure she would do better with them filled, I also added about 80 lbs of lead and she seems to be sitting on her lines well. Also there are 2 adults aboard. the outboard wieghs about 60 lbs, and hasnt knocked her so far out that she will not preform, we just shifted the ballast a bit. I am working on rebuilding a 2 hp, much lighter. or just break down and buy a new one, perhaps a 3 hp  gps says we cruise at about 5.5 mph, highest recorded speed was 8.1, but this was in the channel during some real strong current and a tanker had just passed and we went over his wake to see how it would take it

I hope to get out again this weekend and get more movies.

Jack