From: "Chris Ostlind" <Chris@Wedgesail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: 17' KSDuo design images posted
Date: Fri, 15 Jul 2005 17:26:01 -0000


For all who may be interested... I've posted photos of the enlarged version of the previous KS2 design, which was inspired by the solo Paradox form. The images are in the files section of the Paradox Builders 2 Yahoo site where overflow stuff is now going.

Fundamentally, the design study takes the overall dimensions of the solo KS2 and also the Paradox and expnads them out to a two person, microcruising design.

The KSDuo in the files section under 17'KSDuo. There are two versions of the boat built on the same hull configuration. The KSDuo has a two person cockpit environment and is sized for two adults for sleeping and microcruising with a modicum of comfort. The length overall is 17' with a 66" beam overall.

The KSDuoX is the extended cabin version with a reduced cockpit size. There's 20.5" of increased cabin length. The cockpit space on the X model is useful for two adults, but they probably won't be sitting on the same side at the same time, unless they're particularly small people.

The main cabin hatch is elongated and can be setup in a raised, poptop, manner for full standing headroom. The cockpit deck is angled aft at 3 degrees and raised well above the waterline for efficient self-draining. There is room in the aft compartment for a 5 HP outboard along with fuel. There is also space in the compartment for an aft anchor

The main cabin side windows are covered with solar cells and can be folded up to gain optimum sun angles while underway. The windows below the cell panels are screened for ventilation minus the bugs, as is the forward hatch and the main hatch when popped-up

A fully enclosed dodger/bimini/side panel cockpit is easily fabricated for all-weather sailing is desired.

The tiller is a system of stainless cables run through the aft compartment to a remote wing on a pivot. A short tiller is mounted to the wing and full rudder control is simply provided in a conventional fashion.

The formed, bilge keels provide very low draft while allowing the boat to dry-out on tidal flats or beaches while remaining upright. The keels are set with a 2 degree toe-in to assist in upwind sailing.

The rudder is the flip-up variety and bungee tensioned in the down position to avoid obstacles and prevent damage in thin water sailing.

There is a molded-in toe rail along both gunnels to provide for excellent footing when going forward. The rails are constructed with built-in scuppers for deck drainage and to provide solid tie-off points from stem to stern.

The extreme forward hatch is for the anchor and tackle and is separate from the rest of the boat. The anchor compartment is surrounded by watertight compartments with a foam filled, impact crush zone at the bow.

The rig is a fairly traditional gaff yawl arrangement with the exception that the spars are designed to be carbon fiber. The jib is roller furled for ease of use. The rig is drawn to be balanced for the boat if the crew wishes to sail with the full rig, the jib and mizzen, the main alone or any reefed combination of the sails to suit the conditions.

Other rig types could also be suitable as the interests of the builder dictate. I'm open to other ideas if they can be integrated correctly and safely.

Design displacement is 2300 lbs.

Construction method is strip built in Western Red Cedar, or suitable available wood, with epoxy glass laminate on both sides.

I invite any comments on the design, insights as to how you would make use of the boat for your particular needs or general scuttlebutt about the issues surrounding microcruising.

This boat came out of the expanded discussions that were presented after the KS2 was shown and I learned a lot by just listening to the group and the collected wisdom of that discussion.

The real difference in the two boats is how one views the suitability of a smaller cockpit vs a smaller cabin space.

Let me know what you think, folks.

Chris Ostlind