From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 15:27:34 -0000
Subject: Re: Mainsheet and outboard

Hi Folks,

I love the idea in principle! However....

The major obstruction might be the willows that may have grown up along the shoreline between the waters edge and the trow path. If these paths are not in active use, then there will be many many obstructions to negotiate around. Of course then you could use the yuloh.

When canoeing in Canada it is called "lining" when going downstream and "tracking" going upstream. Canoes would have a line attached at each end and often the two lines would be tied together and the person handling the line could fine tune how much was payed out to the bow and the stern to adjust to the current, fequently steering around rocks and other obstructions even though the canoe has no rudder. 

Willows are usually the major obstruction, together with mud and steep banks. One guy might have to go ahead of the other and the rope might be separated and the bow section thrown forward to the lead guy. Then they would each have a line until they managed to get around the obstruction. It's actually a lot of fun for awhile as it is as intellectually challenging as it is physically. But for any distance it is quicker to portage.

Another option is to use a pole. And/or have one person in the canoe with paddle or pole and then trade off. It is no harder to tow a boat with a person in than with both ashore and actually can be easier to steer.

Oh, did I mention bugs? You stir up every creepy crawling biting critter along the way and they love to bite you just when you need both your hands on the lines:-)

A favorite expression to have handy when doing this:

"Are we having fun yet?"

What I would consider is having one of these handy as back up:

The Honda 2hp 4-stroke.

http://www.honda-marine.com/modelDetail.aspx?modelGroup=bf2

The other option is to simply walk the paths and stay at inns. Much quicker and easier. 

Or better yet, get a canoe, and a portage cart. Two paddlers can easliy do 10-20 miles a day and walk around the locks if they are not open. That way you get a perfect combination of walking and paddling exercise, see the canals from both the water and the land and not be bothered much by the bugs. If you travel light you do not even have to unload the canoe when portaging and you can still do some tracking and lining and poling and paddling. Just have to learn a few "chansons de pays" to sing as you go:-)

The Rideau Canal in Ontario is quite popular with canoeists and kayakers as there are regular campgrounds maintained along the way, by Parks Canada.

Nels