From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 13:22:15 -0700
Subject: Re: new to the group.....

Welcome aboard Jeff, sorry there are so many sources for the info but it
will be worth your while to track it down. Don Elliott wrote a good article
on how to build a paradox and you can purchase it from him on a CD. I think
it is $12. Unfortunately Don, while having much to offer is so full of
himself that he was constantly a arguing with group members and flaming them
for not taking his God like advice on every thing. It got to the point I had
to ban him from the group. and he subsequently started his own group called
paradoxboatbuilders. I encourage you to check it out and to get his how to
build article. As I mentioned before he has a lot to offer if you can get
past his obnoxiousness.
 
Tail winds
 
Glen

From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Wednesday, July 20, 2005 11:20 PM
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] new to the group.....

Hey guys/gals,

Thought I'd show face(so to speak) here since I'm new to the board.
Found this cute little boat called the Paradox, and quickly fell in 
love. As such I've read a boatload (no pun) of info so far on the net.
Still lurking for more...
Just got done writting an e-mail for a set of plans. Hopefully a fast 
responce will come back,as I'm very eger(sp?) to start the build. All 
of the fantastic stories has me pumped! I get a rush just reading 
them....lol.
Looking on the main web site for the Paradox I'm alittle confused. 
I've seen afew addresses's advertised for plans, and also a helpful 
booklet for $12.00. Is there any way of combining all of this to just 
one addy, and one price? Any idea's on the shipping time's?
Well in anycase....pleasure to meet you all. Hope to share the 
building experience....not to mention more stories :)

Jeff



SPONSORED LINKS 
Building design 	
Building design software 	
Commercial building design 	
Metal building design 	
Steel building design 	
Home building design 	

YAHOO! GROUPS LINKS 

	
*	 Visit your group "paradoxbuilders" on the web.
  

*	 To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to: paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com 
  

*	 Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 

