From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: please help!!!
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 13:44:37 -0700

Jeff the source for the plans are Dave and Mindy Bolduc. Matt does not want
to get involved with answering every question that anyone comes up with and
especially if they haven't taken the time to see if the question hasn't
already been answered in the archive section of the group, that is why
someone other then himself is handling the plans. Now that Matt's e-mail
address has been made public I would ask that every one please respect his
privacy. He does pop up occasionally and contribute info as when he
published the new sail plan article. I know he keeps abreast of what is
going on here so I would ask that we leave it to him to come forward when he
feels it appropriate. Thank you all.
 
Tail winds
 
Glen

From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2005 9:37 AM
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] please help!!!

Try mbolduc@triad.rr.com .  This is Dave Bolduc.  I purchased my plans from
him, but he may be off sailing at this time.   Also karen.matt@juno.com.
This is Matt's email address.  This is all of the info I have.
 
Bob Sutton

----- Original Message ----- 
From: jeff_hammell 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2005 11:09 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] please help!!!

Hello again everyone.
I'm getting very desperate. I'm not having any luck what so ever 
trying to get ahold of plans, book, ect. I'm really getting worried 
that I may never be able to build the Paradox at all because of this.
I don't know what e-mail address to use, after trying out 2 of them, 
and both coming back to me saying somekind of problem with the addy.
Should I just give up on this and move on to another boat? Perhaps 
the plans are no longer around? Or maybe Matt is sailing off somewhere 
in the wild blue.
Did you ever have the feeling of wanting something so bad, that it 
create's a whole new type of emotion that is hard to explain? Anybody 
relate?
Well thanks all. I'm hoping somebody can help out.
Jeff

No virus found in this incoming message.
Checked by AVG Anti-Virus.
Version: 7.0.323 / Virus Database: 267.9.2/54 - Release Date: 7/21/2005

YAHOO! GROUPS LINKS 

Visit your group "paradoxbuilders" on the web.
To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.