From: "jeff_hammell" <stinkyshorts@msn.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 21 Jul 2005 19:11:01 -0000
Subject: Re: please help!!!

Opps! I've already tried to E-mail him. I didn't mean to cause harm. I'm mearly just trying to get a set of plan....sorry.

Jeff the source for the plans are Dave and Mindy Bolduc. Matt does not want to get involved with answering every question that anyone comes up with and especially if they haven't taken the time to see if the question hasn't already been answered in the archive section of the group, that is why someone other then himself is handling the plans. Now that Matt's e-mail address has been made public I would ask that every one please respect his privacy. He does pop up occasionally and contribute info as when he published the new sail plan article. I know he keeps abreast of what is going on here so I would ask that we leave it to him to come forward when he feels it appropriate. Thank you all.

Tail winds

Glen

From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
[mailto:paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com] On Behalf Of Bob Sutton
Sent: Thursday, July 21, 2005 9:37 AM
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] please help!!!

Try mbolduc@t... .  This is Dave Bolduc.  I purchased my plans from him, but he may be off sailing at this time.   Also karen.matt@j... This is Matt's email address.  This is all of the info I have.

Bob Sutton

Hello again everyone.
I'm getting very desperate. I'm not having any luck what so ever trying to get ahold of plans, book, ect. I'm really getting worried that I may never be able to build the Paradox at all because of this.
I don't know what e-mail address to use, after trying out 2 of them, and both coming back to me saying somekind of problem with the addy.
Should I just give up on this and move on to another boat? Perhaps the plans are no longer around? Or maybe Matt is sailing off somewhere in the wild blue.
Did you ever have the feeling of wanting something so bad, that it create's a whole new type of emotion that is hard to explain? Anybody relate?
Well thanks all. I'm hoping somebody can help out.
Jeff