From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 21:40:22 -0400
Subject: Re: Enuff Update

Chris Ostlind wrote:

Hi Chris,

Having built and sailed a Paradox, I agree with your points, however... needing a helicopter rescue off a mud flat is.... a place to camp? rigging being tangled on obstructions... could happen, at that point its time to deal with it and cut it loose and the boat will most likely be righted, swamped but bailable.  Multi hulls and a Paradox cannot be compared as a multi will do that flip that sends the mast in, the Paradox would just spill off the wind and find its spot, ive been out in some changing gusts with toooo much sail out in the Paradox and looking down at nothing but water. also tacking into a changing tide with wind blowing against it we were watching 20-30 gallon washes going over the hatch. of course point taken on the mast stuck in the bottom, but I feel its nil, given the prudent sailor..... personaly, it comes down to the captain in my opinion as you have stated. as Matt had stated in beachcruising and coastal camping, that he was to blame for being dislodged from the paradox by helping her turn by grabbing the cabin top rail. also Paradox's mast just slides out, so most likely it would work its way out anyhow. To add a very important point would be, that you install the foam floatation so that if at all that does happen that the boat will be working with you to right itself. I also carry a 72 hour overboard bag with a flare gun, just in case. I guess im just trying to express my confidence that has been learned sailing the Paradox. Red paint is still cool, write in white paint on the chine runners, got air?? because every freaking boat is coming at you to look at you. we had a 30 footer ground on a sand bar chasing us, the locals were delivering food and ice to them till the next tide change, welp, im starting to ramble on....

Jack

Hi Jack,

While I understand your desire to emphasize your wishes for a boat that always rights itself, perhaps the term nil is a bit of an overstatement. There are lots of conditions that would keep any boat from rolling itself over after a capsize.

I used to race multihulls a lot and while they're not even close to the hull type, they could have a nasty habit of jabbing their masts into the bottom when turtled and the only thing that gets them back on their feet undamaged is a bit of clever help from a power boat or some serious (and lucky) wave action. I emphasize clever.

Since one of the cool elements of the Paradox design is its ability to sail in thin water, the typical owner will likely have much fewer reservations in doing so. Strong winds and coinciding, breaking waves in water thinner than the combined hull/mast height will be a good method for doing the "stick in the bottom thing" with the Paradox. Throw-in a primordial, muddy bottom and you have the correct recipe for a stable, inverted boat.

Other scenarios involve knock-downs with halyards and/or sheets becoming entangled in bottom obstructions with the hull filling due to a leaking set of hatches and hydraulic pressure.

I know it's not nice to think of one's boat in a terminally upside down condition. That's especially true if it was designed to be significantly unstable in that position and an automatic, self-righting process is generally the rule. Unfortunately, humans being what they are, a Paradox will eventually be placed in a scenario in which it's design features will not change the outcome.

Chris

SPONSORED LINKS
Building design 
Building design software 
Commercial building design 
Metal building design 
Steel building design 
Home building design 

------------------------------------------------------------------------
YAHOO! GROUPS LINKS

    *  Visit your group "paradoxbuilders" on the web.
          
    *  To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
       paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
          
    *  Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.
------------------------------------------------------------------------