From: "dclark52001" <dclark@woden.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 04 Aug 2005 17:18:40 -0000
Subject: Enuf Epoxy

Made up a shot of epoxy this morning using the pumps, mixed carefully, heated the workshop to 24 degrees and it didn't go off.

Phoned my supplier to complain that the resin or hardener must be faulty and he said that he used some from the same batch to make a roof yesterday and it had set fine! Don't believe him to be a liar so I got three 35mm film cans, filled two with resin and one with hardener, mixed carefully, put an old paintbrush in it and about two hours later it was as solid as the stuff Merlin set the sword in the rock with for testing Arthur.

Careful examination reveals that the hardener pump is not delivering its full load. I've now cleaned both the pumps and shall start over on Saturday. It seems that it is possible for the hardener to form a crusty deposit all by itself. In taking the one pump apart I had a fun time retrieving a small ball bearing that shot out, flew across the workshop and buried itself in old spidersweb and sawdust. 

Inbetween times I taught myself to cook. It occured to me awhile ago that to live in Enuf it might be a good idea to be able to cook. After leaving my Mum for my Sergeant Major and then marrying I've never found the need for cooking. I can do eggs of course, and I once managed to grill a plimsoll to a turn. I also know where the Chinese takeaway and fish and chip shops are but they won't be local to where Enuf hopes to go.

I got my Trangia out, consulted my recipes (gleaned from the internet and chosen for their minimum effort requirement) and made two types of bread and a pizza base. Cordon Bleu and Gordon Ramsey! It was good stuff. Me, son and dogs all agreed that you can't buy bread like that in the shops. Son's girlfriend couldn't be persuaded to try it (moves her down the prospective daughter in law stakes in my eyes) citing some obscure health problem. Anyway, given some flour, baking powder and a couple of eggs I can now make an eggy sandwich from the raw ingredients. Need to concentrate on a topping for the pizza base next.

Derek