From: "" <openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 19 Sep 2005 10:58:28 +0100
Subject: =?UTF-8?B?UmU6IFF1aW50ZXNzZW50aWFsIFNlYXQg4oCTIEFyZSB3ZSBzaXR0aW5nIGNvbWZvcnRhYmx5Pw==?X-Yahoo-Group-Post: member; u=214650167; y=nEyS4Asy5-gmy-aPbq5GZIPNcqeR4vRff7fBvc2YS3-xHJCWbQ


My solution is drawn from practicality. I had a number of cushions so it cost me nothing. Also I tend to fidget quite a lot so changing my position at intervals suits me quite well.

In another life, however, I once had a job that required me to sit in one place for hours at a time and for that I had the most comfortable cushion I have ever come across. It was designed for wheelchair users, those unfortunate people who can only move with outside assistance. Inside a fabric cover was a robust plastic envelope filled with what felt like polystyrene beads in syrup. It moulded to your shape and gave even support, so no pressure sores. I imagine a descendant of this cushion is available commercially. If I were willing to pay money for a comfortable seat this would be the route I would pursue.

The other advantage of a loose cushion is that it can be used as a kneeling pad, or padding for the shoulders while ferreting about in the forward cabin.

One type of seat I did unsuccessfully try to get hold of (from work) was a helicopter pilots dinghy box. This is a small fibreglass box, containing a 1 man dinghy, with a buttock shaped top, and a thin fabric pad, (They are attached to the parachute harness so stay with the pilot when he gets out) These have had much time spent on the ergonomics as it is undesirable to have a pilot fidgeting in his seat.

I have been keeping an eye open for a cheap folding beach seat, with a back, which would be useful for sitting on deck. It is quite comfortable sitting on the after deck dangling your legs over the stern, but there is no support for your back. Even if you move so that you can lean against the cabin, it is too low, and slopes away too much to be comfortable.

On 19 Sep 2005 at 8:50, williamserjeant wrote:

Some have said it would be difficult to improve Paradox, but over time I've heard mention of problems with `sitting comfortably' in the little boat.  There's been a not too serious suggestion of an inflatable armchair; even one with a coffee cup holder!  As a further inducement to adopting the idea, I think Al pointed out it could double up as a tender for getting ashore, not that it should be necessary with Paradox, in view of her shallow draught and the fact that her dimensions are not much bigger than those of a large yacht tender.

For the benefit of all Paradox sailors, could we not get together and design a more comfortable seat that could be stowed away so as to leave the cabin open for sleeping?

I am very much taken with Hugh Horton's adjustable seat in his cruising paddling and sailing canoe.  This enables him to vary the height and horizontal position of the seat within the cockpit; he can also adjust the chair's back rest.  He maintains he can sit in this seat for hours at a time and at the end of the day he feels no numbness in his posterior!

Could this be the solution for Paradox sailors?  Ideally, the seat should be able to rotate and be locked in any position; it should be adjustable for height, inclination and have a means whereby it can be variably fixed athwart ship, while providing good support for ones back.  This chair should also allow ready access to the lazarette.

More often than not, the rule for good design is simplicity and directness of purpose, but perhaps something more sophisticated is called for when it comes to taking coffee and reading a good book while on passage?  Al thinks he has the answer by swapping various cushions to ease his pain, but there must be a better solution.

Who's up to the challenge of devising a superior and more effectual alternative seat being both practical and comfortable, before I come to the point where I shall be providing my Paradox with the quintessential seat?

Incidentally, Uffa Fox had a horse's saddle on one of his boats, claiming it was the most comfortable helmsman's seat he ever sat on -  sadly, not practical for Paradox, but how about a bicycle seat?

Bill.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.