From: "kjellkkk" <gilljam.karlsson@swipnet.se>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: paraplastic report
Date: Tue, 20 Sep 2005 14:31:58 -0000

Thanks all for the ovation

I had a wonderful hour in the sun this post-summer day, perhaps 6-7 m/s, perfect conditions. All alone was I, no pics taken. But I have some showing the boat as it is. I will dig them out.

It was such a long time since I sailed last (21 years to be precise), so I don't really know what I expected. What concerned me most was the stiffness, since I'm a renegate, considering material. Besides the bronze bottom sheet at 70 kg, I carried a battery, 31 kg, scrap lead in plastic bags, 77 kg, myself, 77 kg and nothing more. And lo and behold, it seemed to be enough. Heeling was not bothersam, in spite of it floating well above designed waterline.

I made the yard and sail so that I can move the halyard attachment some 40 cm. I tried just two ways, but it seemed like the tacking performance might be influenced this way. And perhaps also an irritating wrinkle from aft top of the sail (?).

So, this very brief ego-enforcing first sailing tour turned out to be most enjoying and positive. And now I also understand why you guys discuss the pillow-question so intensly. Feels a little awkard not to sit at the side when tacking in a small sailing boat.

Back to the floating rudder problem; I epoxy-glued bronze sheets to the lower third, weighing 4.1 kg, which seems to be adequate. I am now trying to mold a curved bronze strip along the edge, not so easy. But then, the rudder should be quite husky. But no NACA profile anymore.

I do experience problems when hoisting/reefing. I've tried this on land over and over. It feels much too heavy, cannot be that way. Back a couple of years, when a made the vent trunk, I thought; no, I won't need a topping lift. Now I do need one. Cheers, Glen. When I complained about this to Sven Y., he didn't understand what I was talking about. When he sailed Matt's Paradox, each day during two months, he never even thought of it as a problem. He also informed Matt about my problem. Matt didn't understand either. I guess this reveals the difference between a sailor and a not-sailor-yet. Anyhow, a problem it is and my solution to it this far is two fixed topping lifts. I am by no means an engineer, but I reckon the aft lift line should insert as high and the fore as low as possible on the mast. So I have attached the aft one to the masthead sheave bolt and the fore one is just 50 cm long and fixed a bit up the mast, temporarily (i.e., duct tape). The lengths are adjusted so that the boom/yard hangs slightly lower than when sail is hoisted, thus making the lifts slack when sailing. In that way the lifts won't have to come off when sailing. You just unhook them when the boom/yard needs to get down on the deck. Does this sound reasonable?

How about the rest of you? Anyone sailing without topping lift (except our He-men)? Don't you think it's heavy? How much do your boom/yard/sail/line/etc-package weigh? Mine is 8.5 kg.

Kjell