From: "David Beard" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 23 Sep 2005 10:43:49 -0500
Subject: Re: New pics


Some of my most memorable sailing has been done on small out of the way lakes and rivers (being on the water, sometimes no sailing). Paradox can go where no sailboat has gone before, like an oversized canoe with sleeping quarters. Don't be afraid to go exploring, take the mast down and go, if you get stuck, get out and push.

You will fall in love with this boat over time. Enjoy !!!!!

David Beard


------------------------
Original Message:
------------------------

From: "kjellkkk" <gilljam.karlsson@swipnet.se>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Sent: Thursday, September 22, 2005 1:36 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: New pics

Thanks, David
I live at the Stockholm archipelagoe with some thousands of islands.
When I sailed there last, I had boat drafting 2 m, leaving most of the
islands beyond reach. With the current 23 cm things have changed.
It was also a new and exhilarating experience to sail on a chartless
lake, without careing about bumping into stones. There are quite a few
thousands of them too. Lakes that is. (Well, stones as well). That's
what the trailer is about, which permits a trailing speed of 80 km/h.
Then, don't tell anyone, I have an old secret dream to sail to the
baltic states, Estonia e.g. We tried to sail to Leningrad, aka St
Petersburg, some thirty years back, got no permission of course.
Before WWII, the east coast of the Baltic Sea, mainly Estonia, was a
popular place to sail to, and to visit for beach vacation, for many
swedes. Then the strange thing happened, called the iron curtain, and
all of a sudden that place on earth was just as tangible as the back
side of the moon. And now back to "normal" again. To my generation
this is a weird sensation. Anyway, I don't know yet if my wife fits
into the boat, if... etc., it's not far away, but some open sea
distance. A nice dream though.
Well, lots of opportunities, short season.
Kjell