From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 20 Oct 2005 08:20:10 -0400
Subject: Re: new pics

Hi,

I had a similar experience, 2nd or 3rd trip out. river current, fall 
swirling winds, blown into the lee side of a sandbar, walked about 1/2 
mile in the water barfooted, NEVER again, I now carry 2 pairs of divers 
rock boots in the boat, dry suit, or a wet suit.

My 102 year old grandfather that lived alone till 101, took a fall and 
broke his hip, so if I am needed to assist him at a moments notice I 
gotta go!!! so I mounted a 6 hp outboard on her till I can find the 
right 2.5 hp or 3. my wife says she will NEVER enter the boat while on 
the water :( Il have to put her in before launch lol   Also in high 
winds reef early!!!! too much sail out is trouble, I had the yard spin 
inside the loop and spin the sail, I looked up in horror as I could do 
nothing to relax the sail, eventually lowering it and hand reefed it. 
The good thing is you built the boat, you know how to fix her!! Its just 
a learning experience.

Jack

kjellkkk wrote:

Hi all

I've uploaded a few more photos in paradoxbuilders2/photos/paraplastic.

One showing the remaining sail triangle after reefing. Has anyone tried to changed the boom tapering to get rid of that triangle?

Then there's one showing how my rudder finally turned out. There is 4 kg bronze now, which seems to be enough. There was lots of work to get the edge bronze covered.

Finally a couple from a short sailing this weekend in much too gusty wind. After the pics were token, my wife got into the boat, then the wind just got worse and worse, we finally drifted into the reeds and could barely take us back to the jetty, with wind in the sail, trouble getting it down, the whole setup turning almost full turn round the mast, the metall pieces scratching deck and window, also severel scratches on the sides from the jetty. Then very hard wind (15m/s) from aft, skewly, when trying to get the boat on the trailer, pressing it to one fenders (?) on the wheels, buckling it. Took half hour to tow the boat up, standing barefooted in COLD water. And then that old lady came out jelling about...

I think I'll start collecting stamps.

kjell

SPONSORED LINKS
Green building design 
Building design software 
Steel building design 
Church building design 
Building design 
Home building design

YAHOO! GROUPS LINKS

Visit your group "paradoxbuilders" on the web.
        
To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
        
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.