From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Jan 2006 15:05:06 -0500
Subject: Re: More progress and another question

Hi Nels,

Heres the link, mine is similar, just a different name, I repaired this one for a gentelman, that his newly aquiered wife used in her "mobile" home. one day he came home from work and it was sitting between the ruts where the home "used" to be. good ridance I say!! so he sold it to me for 100$ us It runs great very quiet. it will fit up into the forward compartment for stowing, my batteries will be up there and at the moment im using a large deep celled marine batt, and I have mounted a fan into the vent trunk to exit and fumes, runs on 12 vts. I have not been able to really mount it or make brackets as I just today was discharged from the hospital my right tonsil became infected and closed my windpipe almost to the point of the pen in the chest move. The doctors are trying to detirmine when this started and whats causing the infection, my stamina and drive are just not there, but I should be on the mend and back at it soon.

http://www.northerntool.com/webapp/wcs/stores/servlet/ProductDisplay?storeId=6970&amp;productId=200313480&amp;R=200313480

Jack

Nels wrote:

I also added a 1000 watt 2 stroke generator to the boat charge the batts and keep that juice going!!

Wow! Sounds interesting.

Could you provide more details on the electrics.

Where did you install the batts? Are they sealed units?

Where and how did you secure the generator?

Where do you store the fuel and oil?

What about the noise and exhaust fumes?

Nels



SPONSORED LINKS
Green building design

Building design software

Steel building design

Church building design

Building design

Home building design



------------------------------------------------------------------------
YAHOO! GROUPS LINKS

Visit your group "paradoxbuilders" on the web.
To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service .



