From: "williamserjeant" <william@serjeant5445.fslife.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 27 Jan 2006 19:37:31 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Top

As your intention is to not take `Enuf' into situations where sea conditions may have the potential for a total or partial capsize, what you propose with the cabin top could add to her attractiveness, since the whole of the cabin could be open to sunshine =96 a useful feature for UK sailors, since when the sun, in a beneficent mood, casts her warm and health-giving rays upon both the just and the unjust, occasion of her beneficence could be taken.

However, in my experience I would not deviate from Matt's design significantly, because even on sheltered waters the unexpected can occur, as was the case when my 22 ft Wharram Hina catamaran was capsized by a freak gust of wind that came from nowhere on a relatively calm afternoon.

By incorporating an open cabin top and an opening for a washboard into `Enuf', her self-righting characteristic would be significantly reduced.  Indeed, there would be a positive invitation for water to rush into the boat, perhaps flooding her to the extent that even if she were to right herself, she would float low on her lines.  Although buoyancy would be built into her by way of foam insulation, she would become more vulnerable.

My own experience suggests that water would not start to come inside until the mast is nearly in the water. I am also convinced that this could not happen by wind action alone, but would have to be wave assisted. Also as soon as the knock-down conditions had passed the boat popped up immediately meaning that little water came in anyway (though I did get a severely wet sleeve).

If a soft top could be made with a reasonable seal around it this could be a practical conversion. I am reminded that the RNLI had (have?) deck lockers which were closed by a closely fitting plasticised fabric cover held on by hooks and bungy

My biggest reluctance is the loss of security. As designed the contents of the boat is safe from all but the most determined (and destructive) of thieves.

These are observations from experience, and as such are very reassuring for those who sail Paradox, and in my case hope one day to have my own.

Thanks,
Bill.