From: "barnacleid" <william@serjeant5445.fslife.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 13 Mar 2006 21:58:12 -0000
Subject: Re: Paradox sail and spars


That's as it should work, but why do the plans show one side of the boom curved and the other straight.  I've made my boom as per plan, but it may have been better not to have a curved side.

I'm assuming the problem will remain with my curved boom, when the sail is fully set, and whether the sail is reefed or not, the yard will still bend under its weight and the weight of the sail.  The bending could increase because of the force applied to the the end of the boom by the sheet when the boat is on the wind.

Bill.


I shaped and sanded `Faith's' boom today and made the discs for the reefing drum.  If it doesn't rain tomorrow I'll have a go at making the yard.

I've been looking at drawing #1 which shows the original sail plan, and I have noticed that the upper sides of the boom and yard are straight, whereas the lower sides are curved, but wouldn't the sail set better if the curved side of the boom were uppermost?   I suppose it would depend on the cut of the sail, but mine is flattish, and if the under side of the boom is curved, wouldn't that interfere with the shape of the sail?

From photographic evidence of Paradoxes under sail I've noticed there is a tendency for the peak end of the yard to bend downwards because of its own weight and the weight of the sail, and consequently the sail is stretched between the throat and the clew which misshapes the sail.

I therefore have three questions:

Which side of the boom should be uppermost =96 straight or curved?

What, if anything, can be done to prevent the yard from bending?

In an off group discussion with Glen, he came up with the idea of reshaping the sail to accommodate the natural bending of the yard, i.e., have it re-cut so as to remove a long dart shaped piece of cloth under the yard, about an inch in width on the leech, and remove a similar, but smaller piece from the luff under the yard.

Would this be the best solution?

I'm not keen to take the sail to the sail maker, but if that's the only sure way of achieving a satisfactory result, I'll have to do it.

I would welcome your input.

Bill.