From: "dclark52001" <dclark@woden.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Enuf progress
Date: Mon, 27 Mar 2006 05:26:34 -0000

Yesterday I bent the boom axle to shape. This was my 3rd attempt at making it.

When I started the boat in late August 2004 I made a list of the fittings and metal work, sorted what I had from my spares bin and started ebaying and skip searching for the rest. The one item that had eluded me was 12.7 mm brass rod for the boom axle. A few weeks ago I found some 15mm at the non ferrous scrapper's and paid a couple of quid for it with some other oddments. 
A mate from my Morris 8 days was persuaded to turn it down to 12.7mm at one end because I already had the copper tube 'bearing' epoxied into the boom. The rod wouldn't fit his lathe. He put me in touch with a model engineer who turned it for me in exchange for a bottle of red wine. 

At the wine shop there was a special offer: 3 for the price of 2. Unable to resist a 'bargain' I spent =A312 and distributed the bottles between the two lathe owners (well, you never know when you may need help again) and myself. Job done, total cost about =A314.

As I bent the brass I snapped it. Obviously, I hadn't got it hot enough so I resolved to make a couple of brass plate brackets and braze it together. I mean brazing is only hot soldering isn't it? Wrong! I couldn't get the braze to take. Enquires to my wine befuddled engineers elicited the information that the melting point of brass is so close to the brazing rod (new word here: spelter) that brazing brass is, at best, tricky.

I decided to silver solder. That is definitely just hot soldering. I got the piece hot enough that the whole lot started to melt, and it collapsed under its own weight.

A phone call to a non ferrous metal stockholder got me 3 metres (their minium sale) of 12.7mmm brass rod for just =A317.63 includingVAT. They supplied it in three by one metre lengths and yesterday I bent it to shape. 

I found that I had a perfect former built into the body of my Record 74 Auto vice which I think dates from the '30's. It also has an anvil and holes for straightening bent valve stems.

The secret temperature for brass rod bending is just below cherry red. As the brass goes the colour of cheap gold it starts to bend nicely. At cherry red it still bends ok but you are then getting near to it going all wobbly.

The moral of this story is that being cheap can get expensive.