From: "openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com" 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 27 Mar 2006 13:26:34 +0100
Subject: Re: I am concerned that a sailor is trapped in the yacht./fabric top

On 27 Mar 2006 at 12:03, Alan wrote:

Having given it a bit more thought (always a good idea!) I guess my previous idea is no good, as to stand-up you would have to lift the top so high it would be guaranteed to clobber the boom since if hinged at the forward end it would be up at about 45degrees if you were standing somewhere near the seat position.

On longer trips (in reasonable conditions) I have found it desirable to occasionally stand up and move around while underway. One of the (few) disadvantages of the Paradox is that you sit in one place the whole time.

I know!! How about a sliding hatch....
Seriously, what about keeping it more-or less to plans, but making say a hooped fabric cover ala cowboys-n-indians. If it extended a bit forward of the front of the hatch opening, and a bit aft of the rear window/washboard, then you could probably sit and stay dry even with the ends left open. It surely wouldn't need to be very high, and if kept to the minimum you need for headroom, may even be useable while underway? I'm thinking of bendy rods permanently sleeved to the fabric, like a dome-tent, and with the ends just stuck into some sort of sockets-if these were angled away from the opening at each end it might be braced sufficiently to stay in place with just the hoops.

I have adopted a similar principle to this. I have an umbrella which I clamp on to the back of the sliding hatch. This is most useful for keeping off the sun or rain while at anchor, while still allowing the outdoors experience. I have even used it while running in light winds, though it would need guy ropes or something to be used while reaching. It is adjustable for height, lateral and fore/aft position (by sliding the hatch) to cater for all conditions. It is also useful when going ashore to the pub in the rain.

I like the hard hatch from a security point of view. With it locked shut I have no qualms about leaving the boat unattended.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.