From: "David LeBlanc" <whisper@oz.net>
To: "Paradoxbuilders@Yahoogroups. Com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Keeping the dream alive
Date: Fri, 15 Feb 2002 13:13:17 -0800

It's winter. The boat's not done. It probably won't be done for the next
sailing season (in my case nor in 2003 either most likely :>). It seems like
a long slog of work, work, work. What can one do to keep one's enthusiasm
up?! Here are a few ideas i'm going to start with:

1. Keep a log detailing the building and costs etc. Include thoughts about
gear you want, storage ideas etc. etc. etc. Include (baby) pictures of your
boat as she comes into being! (Later, you'll hopefully have the habbit of
keeping a log of you and your boat's adventures!) Condiser putting up a
simple website to share your building experiences etc.

2. Start developing skills that you can use later. I'm going to get a couple
of books on weather prediction (and maybe a barameter too!) and add my
predictions to my log and see how accurate I can get compared to the local
TV/radio weather (how hard can _that_ be <g>). Other useful skills include
celestial naviagation (if that applies to your cruising plans), coastal
navigation/piloting (which very much _should_ apply to anyone's cruising
plans), boating safety etc. In many places, you may find cheap/free courses
offered by local boating organizations and stores. Amateur (Ham) radio
licensing is another option. Consider a first aid course! Spend the weekend
cooking on one burner of your home stove (or buy and use the sort of stove
you plan to have onboard) and see how well you can prepare meals that way
while not relying on refrigeration (learn to use a pressure cooker too!).

3. Buying a choice bit of gear you know you'll need/want later. Of course,
this can be dangerous to your boat building budget, so don't go overboard!
;-) Also, make _sure_ it's really something you need and that will fit your
boat! (This is an idea that you should probably save for really desperate
times when your interest and motivation are really flagging - or it's on
sale so low you can't pass it up!) A cheaper substitute is to start making
lists of the gear you'll need. Consider situations that might come up to
help you figure out what to put on these lists. If you buy gear that helps
you develop a skill, keep in mind that you may wear it out and have to buy
another one when the boat is finally done, so consider a cheaper "starter"
version if you think that is likely!

4. Make lists of places you'd like to go and then web surf or check out the
local library for more information. (I don't suggest you buy (expensive!)
cruising guides since they change from year to year - ditto for charts.)
Don't do too much of this: chasing the dream can be addictive and keep you
from getting to the dream itself.

Don't get so involved with all this that you forget the essential thing:
build on your boat at least every week if at all possible! Develop a regular
schedule and be persistant! Pace yourself and keep up the pace!

Add your ideas to this list and share them with us!

Regards,

Dave LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA