From: "Jeff Please" <doryman_uk@lineone.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Paradox size
Date: Sat, 16 Feb 2002 12:02:21 -0000

Hi Jeff,

Yes I do live in the states, in beautiful Southern Oregon. I have already purchased the standard Paradox plans, but I am definitely interested in your stretched version. Especially so if it is a stitch and glue design. If you come up with the hull panel dimensions please keep me abreast. I have most of the materials to begin construction, but would hold off if I could get a stretched version sometime in the near future. Any info greatly appreciated,

thanks
Jeff

Hi Jeff,

I have two drawings ready to post to this forum, but still I cannot get my scanner to work. Its a Mustek 1200 and it worked fine until I installed Windows XP. If anyone has any advice would they let me know. The Mustek drivers on their site will not download. I have just finished the drawings for the drum fittings(don't ask) and have put the PARAMOUR drawing on my layout table and will try to put a few hours on it today. 

I have sent an e-mail to Mustek Europe so you might be lucky and receive some drawings soon. I am quite pleased with them although they are not the final scheme, but it will give you an idea of the way PARAMOUR is going. I have tacked on two photo's of one my latest designs, a 16' Chamberlain Dory Skiff based on drawings in the DORY BOOK. 

Like Paramour I have taken the 'spirit' of the original design and adapted it to my style of building. I do not like building jigs. And although the finished boat looks complicated and traditional.....it aint. This boat should have taken me about two weeks to build, but its finished now and ready to go into the wet stuff, nearly four years later. For two years I did'nt touch her. But thats another story. This boat was designed on the PLYBOATS 2.01 software and built straight from the programs offsets. Note the fit of the joints. Honest, I did'nt trim the panels to make them fit. The beams tacked to the frames help with trueing the hull when I taped the seams.

Jeff UK