From: LJGeib@aol.com
Date: Sat, 1 Apr 2006 10:16:18 EST
Subject: Re: Lexan
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

Bill,

you might try :

http://www.gcip.co.uk/EP/ep.htm

in the UK. It was my first hit on Google-- here in he USA!

They list Perspex as an acrylic sheet. I have never used that brand, Lexan is 
a Polycarbonate, and Lexan is DuPon't name for their version. Look at 
datasheets there for both products.

Polycarbonates are much tougher. They are often used for bulletproof 
applications in banks, shatterproof eyewear, and for face guards for hockey masks and 
(US) football helmets-- very tough.

Acrylics ar more brittle. they will crack more easily on impact or by 
stressing the sheet, (too much pressure on a screw, for instance), but they can be a 
little easier to see through and will polish up more easily if scratched.

They work a little differently, too. You can "polish" an acrylic edge by 
using a heat source such as a propane torch (PRACTICE FIRST), and can be easily 
bent with a heat gun. Polycarbonates will just char and burn with high heat, and 
the amatuer will get only marginal success by cold bending. I have tryed 
thermoforming it, but the temps involved are close to the heat that ruins the 
product.

If you have the stuff laser cut, the acrylic will have a nice smooth edge, 
the Polycarbonate will be charred and when that is scraped off, the edge will 
have a sanded look.

Both are used in boats. Just be aware that acrylics can't take any structural 
stresses. Also, make sure to get a plastic with a UV coating or it will turn 
cloudy much more quickly. some boat owners will claim that acrylics will stay 
clear longer. I don't know. This is probably more of an issue in the tropics

I've use Lexan Exell D which is UV coated with good success. Even used a 
piece for a window in the bottom of one boat to see the fishies. It can get 
scratched quite a bit, but because it has nearly the same refractive index as water, 
you will still be able to see OK.


Larry