From: Paul <reppeto@comcast.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 01 Apr 2006 12:35:00 -0800
Subject: Lexan

According to: 
http://www.tiscali.co.uk/reference/encyclopaedia/hutchinson/m0006202.html

Perspex is the "Trade name for a clear, lightweight, tough plastic 
first produced in 1930. It is widely used for watch glasses, 
advertising signs, domestic baths, motorboat windscreens, aircraft 
canopies, and protective shields. Its chemical name is 
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA). It is manufactured under other names: 
Plexiglas, Lucite, Acrylite, and Rhoplex (in the USA), and Oroglas (in Europe)"

Plexiglass is kind of the generally used term in the US for Acrylic 
sheets used for windows.
Plexiglass isn't nearly as strong as polycarbonate but it is harder, 
more rigid and more scratch resistant. It can also crack when being 
cut or drilled - so work it carefully and slowly. Plexiglass is most 
often used for replacement windows that are often broken and as 
windows for most any home built project as well as a bunch of 
manufactured ones.

Lexan or Polycarbonate sheets are incredibly tough and resilient. 
They were used in Jet aircraft cockpit windows and may still, for 
all I know. When I was a bit younger, several of us laid a sheet of 
1/4" lexan on top of an open barrel and tried to break it with a 2 
pound sledge hammer.
we succeeded in eventually hitting it hard enough in the center to 
drive it inside the barrel. It was scratched but not broken. 
unfortunately, we then had to remove it from the barrel. We were 
able to work it around until we were able to compress it into more 
of a cylinder shape with a Spanish windlass and then remove it. 
Polycarbonate also has great electrical properties and is a good 
surface for mounting low voltage fuses and connectors and such.

But, as the other Paul say's Plexiglass or one of it's clones costs 
a fraction of the price of lexan and it's much more scratch 
resistant. Just don't shoot musket balls at it.

Paulr

At 11:01 AM 4/1/2006, you wrote:
I don't know what Perspex is, but Lexan is polycarbonate - If you 
ask for and get polycarbonate you will be getting Lexan or some clone of it.

Paul

b