From: "" <openboat@as4jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Enuf pics?
Date: Fri, 14 Apr 2006 21:44:27 +0100

On 14 Apr 2006 at 20:35, james hall wrote:

Hi Al

Not really decided yet whether to build or buy something secondhand which is ready made .

I think that the Paradox might suit me well as I am not really keen to sit outside in a cockpit getting wet and cold. Just unsure of its sailing qualities, particularly its ability to make progress to windward in British conditions.

I am hoping to get to the DCA meeting at Hurst Point on the weekend 29-30 April. If you are free we could meet up at Keyhaven and you could have a sail. Then you would know for sure.

It's so unlike the *normal* sailing boats that we are used to seeing that there is a doubt in my mind. I ask myself why , that if such a simple boat works, there is a large market for conventional boats.

I blame the racing lobby. If it doesn't have the looks of a racing boat then it isn't marketed. Look at the Topper Cruz. Buy a nice cruising yacht, and what do you have to do? Put a windbreak round the cockpit to make it half comfortable, that's what. Why aren't cruising yachts designed with comfort in mind? Because then it would have too much windage to race. Similarly with motor cars. I have to giggle when I see spoilers on a car in this country with it's 70mph speed limit. Hit twice that and they may start doing something (other than adding drag).

When that Americas Cup boat won with winged keels you couldn't move for cruisers that sprouted them, even though the cruising conditions make them irrelevant.

If I bought a boat secondhand, it would be unlikely to be one that could be sailed from inside because there aren't any of those about. So would have to get to like the open air life...;-(
Building a Paradox is a big commitment of time and money and there is an uncertain market for when I reach my dotage and want to sell it.  Hence my hesitation.

I've written off the cost of mine. If I can sell it when the time comes then that's a bonus, or I could just grow marrows in it.

But I might yet!

Jim Hall

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.