From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 15 Apr 2006 22:22:01 -0000
Subject: Re: Enuf pics?

I would suggest that for many of the members of this group there is one more consideration and that is the matter of ecomomy over time.

For example, a 25 footer may be cheaper to build than a shorter design and one with a deeper keel and heavier ballast may be more "weatherly" and/or seaworthy but there is also other factors to consider.

A bigger boat requires a larger engine in all likeliehood and a longer deeper keeled boat may require some substantial moorage, launching and haul out fees and may be restricted to areas where a shallow draft light displacement design can come and go freely without even worrying about these expenses. Witness Charles Stock and his experiences.

Also, even though a light displacement, shallow draft, design may not be capable of going to weather as well as a heavy displacement deep draft design with lots of momentum, it can be easily driven with a small efficient 4-stroke engine, which can drive it at hull speed with little power.

A case in point is Bolgers BirdwatcherII. Even though it is 25 feet, it is designed to be driven with a Honda 2hp 4-stroke that weighs only about 27 pounds or so. The fact is that two people rowing cannot obtain that much horsepower, and hull speed is hull speed even if you have a big sail plan.

Also because of it's light weight and streamlined configuration it can be towed on a trailer with a 1.5 litre car. In addition, doing away with a separate cockpit allows more interior space and shelter than a traditional boat - with the same length. 

Now Matt Layden, the designer of Paradox, has even designed Enigma that can be carried on the roof of a small car. I expect the same 2 hp motor could be used with it if one does not feel like using the Yuloh.

I think people get set in their ways as to how a boat should "look" without considering the alternatives.

Reading Sven Yrvinds writings that are posted in the files may be of considerable interest to those who feel that a boat should look like the traditional designs in their traditional sailing locales.

Opening ones mind to new ideas and new realities of our present economic circumstances might be worth considering.

Nels