From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 17 May 2006 10:10:02 -0400
Subject: Re: Fill/suction copper pipes

Bill,
Take a look at my plumbing photos in the files section for the way I did it. I'm very pleased with the outcome and connect a hose to the sink pump when back on the trailer and lead it out the vent hole. A couple of pumps and the tanks drain by siphon action. The only change I would make would be to use cvpvc instead of pvc as it is smaller.
I have sailed with and with out water in the tanks and while it is a little more tender, it is not a problem. I now only fill the tanks when I will be out for more then a day or two.
I used a five part epoxy similar to WEST and have had no problem other then this twitch in my left eye (just kidding). Scrub out the tank real good to remove any amine blush before using it for drinking water.
By the way, Matt uses a fuel bulb to get water out of his tanks . He says it goes a long way to encourage fresh water conservation.
Glen


barnacleid wrote:

Drawing 5 shows the diameter of the fill/suction copper pipe as 12 mm. How does this work in practice? Does it take a long time to fill or suck out the water from the ballast tanks?

I believe Al uses a 12 volt bilge pump to remove the water, presumably with a pipe that just fits the internal diameter of the fill/suction pipe? Is this how it is done? What is the best method of filling the tanks? Does one use a funnel, or is the bilge pump in reverse mode used to fill the tanks, especially if filling with sea or lake water?

I suppose one could use a garden hose system for filling the tanks where there is a fresh water tap near the launching slipway.

Does anyone fill up at home before setting off on the road to the location where the boat is to be sailed?

It seems to me that with 180 kilos of lead ballast permanently fitted to the boat, 70 litres (70 kilos) of water will not change the situation drastically for when the boat is on the road. She probably sails well without water ballast, or at least without the full 70 kilos, as Matt intended it as fresh water for drinking, providing, of course, precautions and preparations are made - apparently, System Three epoxy is suitable. I'd be interested to have comments from those who have tried the boat with and without water ballast and if you use the tanks for drinking water, what epoxy you used.

What's the best way of closing off the fill/suction pipes at deck level so that the tanks can be replenished with rain water collected on the decks? I note from my photos of Al's `Little Jim' that he has installed what looks like stainless steel screw in caps.

Bill.