From: "barnacleid" <william@serjeant5445.fslife.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 25 May 2006 21:06:33 -0000
Subject: Topping Lift Again

This is primarily addressed to Glen, but others may like to comment on how they arrange and control their topping lifts.

Do you still use a topping lift on the starboard side of the sail with a 3 block purchase, and have you switched the downhaul from a fairlead and jam cleat on the mast above the deck to a block in the vent box via a tube in the deck, so that it can be held by a jam cleat at the front of the vent box in the same fashion as the main halyard?

I note that you have 3 tubes through the deck close to the mast and forward of it on the port side, and one aft of the mast on the starboard side. The outermost on the port side would appear to be for the tack strop; next to it is most likely the topping lift, and the innermost is the furling line. The one aft of the mast is obviously for the main halyard, but am I correct about the others?

How much control does this arrangement allow? Will it let you to hoist the aft end of the boom without significantly changing the position of the forward end and vice versa and will it enable you to lift or lower the boom horizontally? If there are advantages over the simple topping lift with a single block near the masthead, then it would be worth having.

I believe Al uses a single block near the masthead on the port side for a topping lift which has a two part span; the forward part is attached to the furling rod and the other to the mainsheet tang, but I think David with `Whisper' has a single block on the starboard side for a two part span. The starboard side set up has the advantage that the topping lift does not have to pass over the yard where it might cause wear to the sail, but it has the disadvantage that when the sail is stowed on the port deck the spans have to cross over the boat and they may get in the way. It could be that `Whisper' could have just a single line running through a block at the masthead to the boom tang; in which case there would be no means of supporting the forward end of the boom. Please correct me on these points.

I'm seeking opinions because I don't really know what works best.

Bill.