From: Jeff Forrest <paddler@mind.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stitch and Glue Paradox
Date: Mon, 31 Dec 2001 14:04:13 -0800

Jeff Please wrote:

Hi jeff, I agree and I would go one step further and make the sides
from 3/8" thick marine ply and make the bottom panel from two layers
of 3/8" with a heavy layup of glass and Kevlar, as I have said before.
I don't think a lot of us would be doing the sort of cruising Matt,
Dave and Mindy do. 3/8" marine ply is just as strong as 1/2" exterior
ply and costs about the same but lasts longer, and it bends with a
fairer curve.
SHRIMPY the plywood CAPRICE which sailed around the World by Shane
Acton had a skin thickness of only 5/16" and was built just down the
road from me in Cowes.
I said in an early posting that the chine runners would act as an
outer chine and I still stand by that. But on my version the bottom
panel is 4' wide so the chine runner will have to be fixed to the
outside flush with the bottom, then glassed over as per PARADOX.
I read somewhere that the epoxy fillet radius need only be twice the
thickness of the plywood. Any thoughts on that.
        Its bloody windy here. Wind speeds to nearly 50 MPH!

    Jeff UK


I feel that there are many advantages to stitch and glue
construction
beyond any weight savings or non-use of chine logs, that
would simplify
Paradox construction.  For instance, bulkhead construction
would be
greatly simplified.  Much of the bulkhead framing would be
not required,
and also
all of the precise beveling would be eliminated.  Parts in
general to
not have to be precisely fitted in stitch and glue
construction, as they
do in normal framed construction.  Any loss in weight could
surely be
made up in ballast.

As far as bending of 1/2" plywood, if anyone is familiar
with Sam
Devlin's various projects in stitch and glue, I can't see
that it would
be much of a issue.  Paradox is basically a box.  So many
more complex
hull designs have been constructed in stitch and glue than
paradox with
fine results.  I feel that it is a construction technique
worth looking
at in Paradox, it just has not been done yet.

Jeff Forrest

According to Sam Devlin, "The depth of the hull fillets should equal
the thickness of the thickest piece of plywood being fastened, and
should
extend outward from the centerline of the joint 1 1/2 to 2 times its
thickness.  Depending on the angle of the joint, the fillet might be
wider."  This is quoted from Devlin's Boat Building.  Hope that helps.

Jeff, when do you think your version will be done?  Also can you easily
determine the bottom panel dimensions for the 14' version with you
software?

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.