From: "barnacleid" <william@serjeant5445.fslife.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 29 May 2006 21:19:18 -0000
Subject: Re: Topping Lift Again

Glen,

Thank you very much for your reply to my questions re. the topping lift.

Bill.


barnacleid wrote:


This is primarily addressed to Glen, but others may like to comment
on how they arrange and control their topping lifts.


Do you still use a topping lift on the starboard side of the sail
with a 3 block purchase?

Yes

, and have you switched the downhaul from a
fairlead and jam cleat on the mast above the deck to a block in the
vent box via a tube in the deck, so that it can be held by a jam
cleat at the front of the vent box in the same fashion as the main
halyard?

Yes


I note that you have 3 tubes through the deck close to the mast and
forward of it on the port side, and one aft of the mast on the
starboard side.  The outermost on the port side would appear to be
for the tack strop; next to it is most likely the topping lift, and
the innermost is the furling line.

Actually, the innermost is the toping lift.


The one aft of the mast is obviously for the main halyard, but am I correct about the others?


How much control does this arrangement allow?  Will it let you to
hoist the aft end of the boom without significantly changing the
position of the forward end and vice versa and will it enable you to
lift or lower the boom horizontally?  If there are advantages over
the simple topping lift with a single block near the masthead, then
it would be worth having.

The idea behind all those blocks is that as you haul in on the topping
lift the boom comes up and centers itself into the correct position 
there by allowing the use of one line instead of two. In practice it 
doesn't work as well as I'd hope but well enough that I haven't changed it.


I believe Al uses a single block near the masthead on the port side
for a topping lift which has a two part span; the forward part is
attached to the furling rod and the other to the mainsheet tang, but
I think David with `Whisper' has a single block on the starboard
side for a two part span.  The starboard side set up has the
advantage that the topping lift does not have to pass over the yard
where it might cause wear to the sail, but it has the disadvantage
that when the sail is stowed on the port deck the spans have to
cross over the boat and they may get in the way.

The lines have never been in the way as the aft one is so far back. I, 
like Al, snug up the halyard after the sail is stowed to port and tie 
off the lines to it so that they don't drum against the mast.


   It could be
that `Whisper' could have just a single line running through a block
at the masthead to the boom tang; in which case there would be no
means of supporting the forward end of the boom.  Please correct me
on these points.

I'm seeking opinions because I don't really know what works best.

Bill.


I've been pleased enough with the set up that I haven't re-thought it 
much Bill, but it could be improved upon. I normally sail off the hook 
and try to hoist the sail when on a starboard tack. Sometimes the yard 
does get caught on the lift, in which case I just lower it a bit and 
flip it over. The only time it has been a problem, as in all things, is 
when you most need everything to go just right. The solution is to take 
your time and think every thing through then if you're really lucky you 
will get away looking like you know what your doing.

Glen