From: "David LeBlanc" <whisper@oz.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 22 Feb 2002 14:25:08 -0800
Subject: Re: refit

Comments below...

Are you the guy who's going to put kevlar on his bottom?
No, I am. Um, except that I'm not a guy. :-)

From what i've read, kevlar is a royal PITA to work with. It's supposedly really hard to properly wet-out, extremely hard to cut (i've heard of special scissors, knives etc. needed to work it), and basically can't be sanded at all.

I've heard basically the same thing -- but those properties are actually good, because they're a side effect of kevlar's unmatched abrasion resistance.  I'm guessing that the frequency with which a Paradox typically bumps the bottom in shallow water will make the extra effort pay off. I might try a test layup on something small such as a Bolger Tortoise first, as a proof of concept.

There is no such thing as a boat material that takes a lot of bumping; for example, it's a myth that a steel hull can survive a reef without major damage (so i've read repeatedly!). Taking the ground, occasionally bumping a piling etc. I think are well within epoxy encapsulated fiberglass/wood's ability to withstand (perhaps with some easily repaired cosmetic damage). I think kevlar is serious, expensive overkill. FWIW, fiberglass/epoxy is already stronger then steel! OTOH, If abrasion is your chief worry, there are anti-abrasion additives for epoxy.

I wasn't aware that Paradoxen had a propensity for bumping the bottom!? I really don't consider running aground or drying out on a tidal flat "bumping the bottom", unless you run aground on rock going at a good clip that is (don't DO that! :>) I don't think even kevlar is going to help if you hit a sharp rock moving at higher speed (speed of course being relative here). While the kevlar might not be cut or torn, The material behind/in front of it is quite apt to be! If you have any reason to believe that the bottom is getting shallow, you shouldn't be zipping along anyway, unless you're willing to pay the consequences.

I somehow get the idea that this notion of using kevlar or whatever is meant as an anecdote to poor seamanship (or seasheship if you prefer ;)). If

that's the case, I would suggest "HMS Titanic" as the name for your vessel :>.

-- Sue --
(and the kevlar Paradox bottom is in part a proof of concept for using kevlar on the bottom of some future liveaboard boat)

Regards,

Dave LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA