From: Cary Grimm <woodwsprites@sbcglobal.net>
Date: Mon, 17 Jul 2006 19:06:13 -0700 (PDT)
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Plywood Choices

Hi Joe,

I just ordered the plans on Sunday via pay pal using the Bolduc's e-mail address for the pay pal recipient mbolduc@triad.rr.com , This may not be instant because they use snail mail, which the cost of is included in the $40.00 nominal fee. Just send them a  e-mail saying you are ordering through pay pal, then go to pay pal and put in recipients address and fee.

I hope this might help.

Yours truly
Cary Grimm
woodworksgrimm

Original message:
Hello All. I recently just started reading about the Paradox, and it has me excited about the possibility of potentially building one. I was not even aware that a typ/class of boat like this existed. I live near a very large lake (Pend Oreille in North idaho) with over 100 miles of shoreline. I had a powerboat (18' fiberglass with a fuel gulping chevy 350) that I got board of and sold. I like the idea of the paradox because I could "camp" in it. I also like the idea of not dumping $100 bucks in it just to drive around for half a day. The powerboat was only good in perfect weather, the paradox looks like I could use it much more of the year (IE windy weather). North Idaho's very pretty, but has a typically northern cooler climate. The ability to operate the paradox from an enclised cabin appears that it could be a winner.

Anyway, I'm wondering about plywood. I have not ordered plans yet (I will this weekend). Can someone build the paradox with cheap plywood, or is the fancy stuff mandatory? I will probably keep it at the Hope marina for 6 months of the year, and in my barn during the winter.

If I build, I'm guessing the first thing I'll need to do is concrete one of the bays in the barn (it's currently gravel). I'm guessing that having a level surface is mandatory while you are building the frame. If I'm wrong please chime up!

Any comments would be helpful.

P.S. I wish I could just hit a website and paypal for the plans. If I could, they would be here right now!

Chris Curtis