From: "Alan" <logicaid@xtra.co.nz>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 18 Jul 2006 09:51:48 -0000
Subject: Re: Plywood Choices

Hi,

One other possibility might be a wooden floor, just some simple framing and a few sheets of whatever you use in the US for flooring in houses etc. If its inside a barn, it should be ok just straight down on the ground? Only needs to be a little bigger than the boat!

Cheers
Alan.


On Jul 17, 2006, at 6:11 PM, Stephen Yahn wrote:

Hi Joe. If you would go the the FILES section you can see some STUDY PLANS . The last item on the list is the Sail plans. If you print this out you can read what the designer says about plywood choices. My own boat, which I have just started, is made of exterior fir plywood since I plan for it to live 99 % of it's life sitting on the trailer. Have you ever built a boat before ? I shouldn't think a paved floor is necesary. There is an assembly scheme layed out in the "plans" which make it "self jigging" so to speak. Print out all the study plans and see what's there.
Steve Yahn, Puget Sound


Hello Stephen.  My name is really Chris. Joe_mapango is just a screen name. I grew up overseas, and mapango was my nickname (given to me by my brother and sister). It means toothless or ape in Swahilli (or Bugandan, I forget). So I became Joe Ape! (or Joe toothless!)

Anyway, thanks for getting back to me and your assistance. I checked out the "study plans" file area. I see I can build out of ex grade plywood.  That will make starting this thing easier to justify!

I have never built a real boat before, and I may be kidding myself, but I think I could. When I was younger I built many RC planes and boats, and I think that gives me some perspective. I have all the space I need, and a fair amount of tools. Time and money are what I lack the most, but those factors pervade my entire life. Why let them bother me now! A concrete floor would be nice, but that also means paying someone to pour a 12X30 pad in my barn (covers one bay!), I'm sure that's not cheap. I sent an Email to the plans guy to confirm they are available, price, and payment type. I'm looking forward to seeing them.

Have a great week. Keep the list informed of your progress.

Chris Curtis

Chris Curtis
Sandpoint Computers
Office 208-265-1608
Cell 208-610-3062