From: John Doe <reallyfixed@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Plywood Choices
Date: Wed, 19 Jul 2006 10:14:49 -0700 (PDT)


John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net> wrote:          
Your best bet is, 


Go with what you can afford. take into consideration, How you intend to use the boat, will you be skinning the outside in glass?? What type of paint are you considering?? degree of finish?? work boat quality/show, I used good quality exterior fir, skinned it in 2 oz glass, double layer in many places, used good quality exterior fir 3/4 " for the floor and went one layer of 12 oz biax on the bottom, I use the boat in Bay/Ocean/River invorment, I have a 6 hp motor on it and power sail alot in it. I have ran her right up onto the beach, with moderate sized rubble and have not damaged the bottom at all. I have found that using this grade of plywood is acceptable. I also used the stich and glue, tabbed, fillet route for construction. A good rule of thumb is best you can afford, with a bottom line of quality and common sense. alot of the framing I used mahogany and oak. Also as a tip, If your not familiar with the grading of plywood, you will want to be before shopping. ie
A/A A/B A/C B/C C/DX 
   


Your Sailing area sounds great, I think the Paradox would truly shine in those conditions.


Jack



Hello All. I recently just started reading about the Paradox, and it has me excited about the possibility of potentially building one. I was not even aware that a typ/class of boat like this existed. I live near a very large lake (Pend Oreille in North idaho) with over 100 miles of shoreline. I had a powerboat (18' fiberglass with a fuel gulping chevy 350) that I got board of and sold. I like the idea of the paradox because I could "camp" in it. I also like the idea of not dumping $100 bucks in it just to drive around for half a day. The powerboat was only good in perfect weather, the paradox looks like I could use it much more of the year (IE windy weather). North Idaho's very pretty, but has a typically northern cooler climate. The ability to operate the paradox from an enclised cabin appears that it could be a winner.

Anyway, I'm wondering about plywood. I have not ordered plans yet (I will this weekend). Can someone build the paradox with cheap plywood, or is the fancy stuff mandatory? I will probably keep it at the Hope marina for 6 months of the year, and in my barn during the winter.

If I build, I'm guessing the first thing I'll need to do is concrete one of the bays in the barn (it's currently gravel). I'm guessing that having a level surface is mandatory while you are building the frame. If I'm wrong please chime up!

Any comments would be helpful.

P.S. I wish I could just hit a website and paypal for the plans. If I could, they would be here right now!

Chris Curtis



  

         

---------------------------------
How low will we go? Check out Yahoo! Messengers low  PC-to-Phone call rates.