From: Chris Curtis <ccurtis@spamcop.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 20 Jul 2006 13:19:40 -0700
Subject: Re: Plywood Choices

First, let me say thanks to all who chimed in. Getting all the replies that I did was heartwarming. I am a computer guy, specializing in Linux. One of the things that makes Linux so great is the community that has evolved around it providing support and encouragement. Your responses remind me of the Linux communities that I participate in and made me feel better about taking on this project!

On of my customers is a large lumber company. I have been working with them on getting quotes for marine ply, the MDO product, and some A/BX they can get. I'm in the process of clearing space in my barn, and building a platform (wood rails) to build the paradox on. I also realized I can use my barn trusses to hoist up the hull, and flip it over. I need to add a two columns in the barn to shore up the trusses. It "should" work without the reinforcement, but I have the spare 6x6 lumber to use, and better safe than sorry. My plans are on the way, and I have many things to decide before they arrive.

A few more questions or suggestions if I may:

I'm a bit concerned about the cabin size of the boat. I did read somewhere about slightly enlarging the paradox, and that it was not a design problem. I'm 5'11, and just under 200 lb. My wife (whom I will be taking with me on the boat) is just under 5 feet tall. I have seen pictures of two people in the paradox, but I'm wondering how it does with two. Also, I can imagine that two can sleep in the paradox, but I'm wondering if it is difficult. Any opinions would be welcome, on enlarging the boat, or on a crew of two.

Secondly, I'm aware that I can laminate a mast, or I can buy a fancy aluminum/insert exotic stuff here mast. But I may have another choice. I have a few hundred (thousand!) larch (tamarack, same thing) trees on my property. There trees are a hard wood, and painfully straight with branches only at the top 20% of so of the tree. Would it be lame/stupid/unsafe of me to plan on using my large sources of larch for booms, masts, etc. They seem like the perfect wood to use for a mast, and boy are they cheap!

Thanks again for all your suggestions.


Chris Curtis


Chris Curtis
Sandpoint Computers
Office 208-265-1608
Cell 208-610-3062