From: "John Gardiner" <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 20 Jul 2006 17:22:22 -0400
Subject: Re: Plywood Choices


Heres one good suggestion,


   If I were to build another Paradox, and I may, course after I complete the micro8. would be to construct the sides out of 2 layers with opposing seams say dual 1/4 inch to make 1/2 " or dual 3/8ths to make 3/4... not only is this stronger, but fair to bend and more forgiving than scafs, and anybody thats worried about the inner core of the plywood has the peace of mind to know that they laminated it ;) and also going with an enlarged plan. this would serve also to construct the larger sized bulkheads. then as I am thinking on the larger paradox, the sail plan &amp; mast grows with it...... mast construction, needle bearings for the reefing drum....  If I had the larch just growing on my property" I have about 20 50-250 year old red and white oaks" I would take measured pieces and put them to the test against say, d fir clear, or stika, get a poor mans tensometer, a fishing scale and secure it to the end and see how many pounds it takes to break, how far it bends at what tension, twist test etc find out how it marrys epoxy. The stock paradox I was able to alone flip her until the cabin top went on. I also built her on 2 large bunks I got them parrel and level and made marks on the hull sides where she should sit and went from there. Your gonna want to move her a bit when it comes to those $%!#$&amp;$%# chine logs. There are some notes on the enlaged paradox in the files section I think too.

Jack


From: Chris Curtis
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, July 20, 2006 4:19 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Plywood Choices


First, let me say thanks to all who chimed in.  Getting all the replies that I did was heartwarming.  I am a computer guy, specializing in Linux.  One of the things that makes Linux so great is the community that has evolved around it providing support and encouragement.  Your responses remind me of the Linux communities that I participate in and made me feel better about taking on this project!



On of my customers is a large lumber company.  I have been working with them on getting quotes for marine ply, the MDO product, and some A/BX they can get.  I'm in the process of clearing space in my barn, and building a platform (wood rails) to build the paradox on.  I also realized I can  use my barn trusses to hoist up the hull, and flip it over.  I need to add a two columns in the barn to shore up the trusses.  It "should" work without the reinforcement, but I have the spare 6x6 lumber to use, and better safe than sorry.   My plans are on the way, and I have many things to decide before they arrive.


A few more questions or suggestions if I may:


I'm a bit concerned about the cabin size of the boat.  I did read somewhere about slightly enlarging the paradox, and that it was not a design problem.  I'm 5'11, and just under 200 lb.  My wife (whom I will be taking with me on the boat) is just under 5 feet tall.  I have seen pictures of two people in the paradox, but I'm wondering how it does with two.  Also, I can imagine that two can sleep in the paradox, but I'm wondering if it is difficult.  Any opinions would be welcome, on enlarging the boat, or on a crew of two.


Secondly, I'm aware that I can laminate a mast, or I can buy a fancy aluminum/insert exotic stuff here mast.  But I may have another choice.  I have a few hundred (thousand!) larch (tamarack, same thing) trees on my property.  There trees are a hard wood, and painfully straight with branches only at the top 20% of so of the tree.  Would it be lame/stupid/unsafe of me to plan on using my large sources of larch for booms, masts, etc.   They seem like the perfect wood to use for a mast, and boy are they cheap!


Thanks again for all your suggestions.


Chris Curtis



On Jul 18, 2006, at 11:13 AM, John Gardiner wrote:


Your best bet is,

  Go with what you can afford. take into consideration, How you intend to use the boat, will you be skinning the outside in glass?? What type of paint are you considering?? degree of finish?? work boat quality/show, I used good quality exterior fir, skinned it in 2 oz glass, double layer in many places, used good quality exterior fir 3/4 " for the floor and went one layer of 12 oz biax on the bottom, I use the boat in Bay/Ocean/River invorment, I have a 6 hp motor on it and power sail alot in it. I have ran her right up onto the beach, with moderate sized rubble and have not damaged the bottom at all. I have found that using this grade of plywood is acceptable. I also used the stich and glue, tabbed, fillet route for construction. A good rule of thumb is best you can afford, with a bottom line of quality and common sense. alot of the framing I used mahogany and oak. Also as a tip, If your not familiar with the grading of plywood, you will want to be before shopping. ie A/A A/B A/C B/C C/DX

 Face Grade / Backside Grade
A/A is A grade both faces A/B is A face with a B backside

 Your Sailing area sounds great, I think the Paradox would truly shine in those conditions.

Jack


Chris Curtis
Sandpoint Computers
Office 208-265-1608
Cell 208-610-3062