From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 21 Jul 2006 15:58:02 -0000
Subject: Re: Paradox Plans


Most of the competitors never go out of the sight of land. It is essentially a coasting event in mostly shoal waters. Some of the folks are kyakers and downriver canoeists and have never sailed in their lives, let alone actually going off-shore. 

Matt was one of the first to do that, from what I understand. One reason being that the deeper water is actually less rough!

There is a map of Frolic2's track here as well as photos showing how rough the water was:

http://homepages.apci.net/~michalak/1apr06.htm

And a building site for another Frolic here:

http://4dw.net/cosailor/frolic.htm

Also at Chief's website there are numerous photos and videos and logs about the weather and water conditions and how they were handled. They all give the impression of being mostly small boat camp-cruising experiences. 

A major advantage according to Gary Blankenship With a small sailboat like Frolic2 or Paradox is that you did not have to go ashore at night and set up a camp. Landing and departing through surf and sleeping with the bugs were major challenges and wasted a lot of time, compared to heaving too and or drifing while napping. 

Almost as important according to Gary was the protection provided by the cabin or sprayhood. Not only from the wind, rain and cold, but also from the sun. Matt did most of his trip in shorts and T-shirt and bare feet with sometimes a fleece top in the morning chill. He mainly carried rain gear and footwear for the overland portions. He never even carried a high tech life vest but only a couple of the old 10 buck horse collar types much to Chiefs amazement. 

These two factors (Being able to rest in the boat and being sheltered from the elements) add immensely to ones ability to deal with the environment over a period of time and still have energy reserves - which Matt demonstrated when he continued on sailing home after the event. 

Nels