From: "Jeff" <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Aug 2006 16:17:25 +0100
Subject: Re: Ballast

If you are thinking of build a PARADOX just as a motor boat, don't
You could use the design as a guide but decrease the draught to about 6" with a decreased rocker, lowering the ends by 3 - 4".
If you still want to use a PARADOX hull, she would have to be taken nearly to her lines to be any sense.
Water ballast, in addition to drinking water, could be used as well as lead.
I would also recommend that a 4 stroke engine of only 2 - 2.5 HP be used. 
Any engine larger would be throwing money away.
An engine with a twist grip throttle where the throttle and cable can be extended into the cabin.
Steering would be as per designed on the sailing version.
With an outboard motor on the back the trim of this boat should be as per drawings at rest, with adjustments made to motoring attitude by tilting the engine.
This boat will not plane, no matter what size of engine you stick on the back. If the nose is in the air, with a large bow wave, throttle back. You will only loose about 1/4 -1/2 a knot but save a lot of fuel.   
What is happening is that the boat is trying to lift herself up onto that bow wave, which she cannot.
You would not need to fit chine runners as well. They would only add drag.
I would be inclined to reduce the scantlings as well.
Open up the opening in station 2, doing away with the vent trunk. Fit an hatch in the deck forward of that. This would allow handling of ropes and mooring, also to let in fresh air under calm conditions or when at anchor. There would be no reason to stand on the side decks.
Look into fitting a solar vent in this area as well.
I would also look into fitting the galley in this area using an all in-one gas canister single burner cooker resting on a fold down shelf. Remember there would be fuel stored very close to the cooker in the galley as designed.  
Fit wash boards as on LITTLE CRUISER to make engine operation easier.
Extend the deck aft by about 2" to give the transom some rake (the engine needs it). This can be done when marking out the sides. Fit a small outboard well,not a bracket, and a small skeg aft.

Jeff UK