From: Chris Curtis <ccurtis@spamcop.net>
To: microcruising@yahoogroups.com, paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 18 Aug 2006 21:03:07 -0700
Subject: I started the maxi paradox today

Hello All. This morning I received a shipment of most of the wood I'm going to be using to build my larger paradox. I have not started cutting, but I'm currently working towards making a paradox in an 18 foot size, possibly to 19 feet. Other mods include creating a top deck that looks a bit more like the Bris, AND adding a small external cockpit in the back behind the "doghouse". I basically want to build the "ultimate cruiser?" PDF, included in with the paradox plans, and included in the (paradoxbuilders) file area. Another mod I'd like to make is to terminate the mast on the top deck and use "little cruiser" type mast braces. I'm also thinking about setting it up so the mast can fold down between posts. Freeing up the space where the mast would go would allow creating a double berth in the front of 6.5 feet or so, and then having an additional 5.5 or so feet for additional seating, table, galley, crapper, etc. I'd also like to put a hatch above the front bed for ventilation and easy access to the front anchor area.

I am currently building a 9.5 foot pram sailboat to "get me ready" for the maxi-paradox, both from a building and a sailing standpoint. I don't pretend to be an expert in boats, building, or sailing. I have not sailed in 20+ years. I'm kind looking for ideas, criticisms, suggestions, or whatever. Part of me is doing this because I could not find a used boat in my area that gave me everything (I think I want!). I expect to have the basic hull shape done over winter sometime, and if money permits, start glassing late next spring. Actual water time will probably take until 2008.

I'm half way done with a 16" mockup of the boat to "see" what it will really look like. I'm making it out of balsa. Not to actually "sail" so to speak, but just to make sure it looks right. It also assists in showing my lady what I'm spending so much time and money on. I'm sure it will sail OK because it used the same hull design as the paradox. I'll post pictures if anyone is interested.

Best regards,
Chris Curtis
Sandpoint Computers
Office 208-265-1608
Cell 208-610-3062