From: "dclark52001" <dclark@woden.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 13 Sep 2006 08:38:23 -0000
Subject: Re: Paradox for Sale UK

Hi Steve

Thanks for the condolences.

Enuf sold more or less immediately. and on Saturday starts a journey to Norway via Norfolk. In Norfolk she departs her tariler which goes to Bill in Essex. 

Your son will love Oxford. My daughter had a great time there doing her Masters. The graduation ceremony is colourful but confusingly conducted in an obscure old Italian dialect normally reserved for naming flora and fauna. I can recommend the Loch Fyne fish bar in Jericho. 

My motor boat is being delivered this afternoon, I've just organised a jet washer and wet and dry vac for tomorrow and the wife is out working to pay for it.
It's a wonderful world :0)

This is probably a bad place to mention it but I'm thinking about a little motor boat designed to utilise the Honda 2 or 2.3hp air cooled 4 stroke outboard. While there are plenty of small boats for sail there doesn't seem to be much to suit this engine which must have sold in the tens, if not hundreds, of thousands. I'm thinking 14' by 4 or 4.5', solo use, easy launch and retrieve, cabin long enough to sleep in with sitting headroom and river and estuary worthy. Camping type living aboard. Must be a quick ply stitch and glue construction and a 7 year projected life would suit me.

Jim Michalak suggested his smallsailors without their masts and leeboards. His boats seem  very boxy without the redeeming curves of the Paradox although I do like the low, sloping cabin roofs with elliptical portlights. Also, he opined that the little Honda is noisy although he hadn't heard one. Dis' my wife and dog but never my engine!
Paul Fisher can do a redesign of his Power 1, and that has lovely Venus de Milo curves, but it would cost the price of a 2hp Honda.
John Welsford hasn't replied as yet and I wondered if his Trover would provide a suitable hull.
Anybody else out there who would tackle this?

Cheers