From: "John Gardiner" <alex29@cox.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sat, 16 Sep 2006 20:15:28 -0400
Subject: Re: Goodbye - YEAH

Even tho I wasnt mentioned as a mentor ;) il add my 2 cents. could be you like fixing and building more. but when you say a 5 hour op could fix it, dont you think you sold off the best boat before you answered the next question....... I feel more secure in that lil boat than i do in my 19 foot 75 horse motorboat, cause even if the motor dies I can always make it back with the sail, of course Id take that paradox in the ocean in rough weather anyday over a powerboat. not to mention you can easily just beach the paradox and seek help, might not be able to do that in many many other boats.  I have to agree, dont sell yourself short!!!!! and dont burn bridges!!!!

the Paradox seems to have evolved out of alot of deep thought, the more you get "into" it the more you see the brass tacks of survivability for extended periods in a very limited space, to me, genius.

Good luck either way it goes!!!!

Jack

Hello...

I do not know you or you me - but I believe you are being a 'big 
dummie' - you don't need to burn the bridges that have served you in 
the past in an effort to deal with the future - I just made that up -
hehehe...

Burning bridges is for soldiers - adolescents - and mad men...

Besides - I personally would be more interested in having you about 
and seeing photos and notes of your next build and knowing how the 
fight with 'Gods given body' goes - life is full of challenges - 
taxes and death are the only things that are certain...

I also believe that positive focus can cure all ills - don't stop 
what you are doing just because the Gods put a hurdle in front of 
you - they are just testing your courage and 'gumf'...

Trust me on this - I have my own bits to deal with - there are days 
when it leads to sadness - but I fight it - sometimes there is just 
nothing else to do...

If I hit any nerves - I will not apologise - fight - work - laugh - 
say 'morning sunshine' when it comes over the horizon - as it always 
does - 'cept on overcast days - but it is still there...

DAMNIT...

Cheers...

SH.

Jeff wrote:
> But Derek.
> Why are you leaving. Your new boat is classed as a microcruiser in 
my mind. 
> And just because it is powered by an outboard motor makes it no 
different from the other types. Paddle, oar or sail.
> So. 
> No more of this leaving crap.
> 
> Jeff UK

----- Original Message ----- 
From: dclark52001 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Saturday, September 16, 2006 11:01 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Goodbye


I'm leaving the group after about 30 months.

Enuf left for Trondheim via Norfolk today. As she bobbled down 
the road (council behind on 
pothole filling again) my wife asked if it made me sad. It 
didn't. I'm happy that she goes to a 
new home, I've got a new boat project or two, and a consultant 
surgeon told me yesterday 
that a 5 hour op may cure my diabetes. What's to be sad about?

Thanks to everybody for their help during the build. I'd like to 
particularly single out Al Law, 
Dave Bolduc, David Beard and Don Elliot.

If my op works (booked in for next March) I may build again. but 
a lighter, quicker and dirtier 
build perhaps incorporating some of Jeff Uk's changes and 
definitely making proper Honda 
provision :0)

Cheers all ..... Derek

