From: "randoneur" <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 2006 17:23:14 -0000
Subject: Brief Intro

Hi all,

Just a quick intro from a newcomer to the forum. I only discovered this forum a week or so ago, but I've already trawled my way through the 4000 odd messages, and it reads like an interesting novel - really difficult to put down! Anyway I feel I know everyone here (even though I don't) and your enthusiasm for this little ship has really got me hooked; so much so, that I'm about to send off for the plans.

I'm in Gloucestershire in the UK, so hopefully I'll be able to have a look over Little Jim sometime to see what I've let myself in for. My sailing career to date started in Dinghy's as 9 year old - first microcruiser was the 13' Voyager (by Polycell) which we cruised extensively around the north coast of Northern Ireland. I moved up to a Caprice at about the age of 19 which we did the Inner Hebrides etc in. All this time I was also crewing in much larger offshore boats, but the magic of the little ships never went away. When I left home to find a proper job  at 21, my sailing came to a halt being in the land locked place I still reside! I had a laser Dinghy for a couple of years in the late 80's and then became a fanatical windsurfer from then up to the present. 

Now that the kids are growing up and moving on, and I grow older each day (48 now) i thought it was time to plan for my future and get back to some cruising!

I have an admission - I have never built a boat before, so this is a step into the unkown for me. I'm confident however that I can learn from my mistakes as i go along, and have something workable at the end of the day (that's what I've told the wife anyway)!

Enough about me, some questions about Paradox (of which I have many).

Steering - is this only done by the ropes or can you use the tiller directly? I just can't imagine how you would get a nice "feel" of the boat steering through all that indirect rigging.

How on earh do you clean/paint the bottom? I'm used to Bilge or fin keels to gain easy access.

Does anyone leave their boat on a swinging, drying mooring? Will the bottom survive with the daily pounding of grounding twice a day?

Does noone carry a tender? Not everywhere around this coastline has a beachable stopping-off point.

And finally (for now)how can I pee over the transom when I'm 3 feet away from it in my little cabin (especially if we're running down wind :-) 

Sorry for the long post...

Regards
Pete.