From: "Ned Mellon" <nmellon@earthlink.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 31 Oct 2006 02:02:12 -0000
Subject: Re: Has anyone investigated the practicality of a junk rig

Hello, I'm another new group member and hopeful Paradox builder.  I had been looking for boat to build for quite a while before settling on the Paradox design.  During my search I became enamored with the Chinese Lug Rig.  For a small cruiser it it appears to have several advantages.  It reefs easily, is controlled during gybes, and doesn't put too much stress on the sailcloth.  Windward performance seems to be pretty good if the sails are made with some camber in the panels.

The Paradox rig reefs easily, is controlled during a gybe and has good windward performance. The Chinese lug rig would have to have some pretty compelling features to make it worth changing.

So, my question.  Has anyone out there already done some analysis and perhaps some experimentation with rigging a Paradox with a Chinese lug sail?

Would a Chinese lug not have more sail forward of the mast? If so wouldn't the mast have to be moved aft to keep the boat in balance?

From the photos I've seen, the luff is anywhere from a few percent in front of the mast to maybe 20%.  Some of the more complex rigs have ability to move the sail forward and aft to affect sail balance via the yard parrel and the luff parrel.

Does a Chinese lug not have to have sheets coming aft from the battens?. The existing Paradox sail extends behind the transom so you would either need some sort of bumkin or else move the centre of effort even further forward ruining the existing almost perfect balance.

The most logical arrangement that I've seen uses two main sheets, one on the windward side and one to leeward.  They are connected to the boom about 20% in from the aft end.  I would not consider any change to the center of effort of the sail or position of the mast.

Would a Chinese lug rig stow on the side deck as the designed sail does, or would it be left swinging about above your head (and getting in the way when you stand up) on the topping lift?

All of the chinese lug rigs seem to employ lazy jacks to control the sail.  If you need to stow the boom,yard, and sail then you would need to release the lazy jack halyards.

So to partly answer your question, it has never occurred to me that a Chinese lug rig would be superior to the designed rig. I am a fan of the Chinese lug, but not on this boat.

I've been reading through the message archives and noticed that some builders have added a topping lift due to difficulty in controling the boom during reefing.  It occured to me that if I were to go as far as adding a topping lift why not go a bit further and make the topping lift into lazy jacks.  Since I've now added lazy jacks now why not add some battens to the sail and dispense with the roller reefing boom.

At this point everything is hypothetical.  I'm hoping that someone has already tried this or at least has put a lot of thought into it and can tell me that it is either a brilliant idea or complete lunacy. The advantages of the chinese lug appear to be ease of reefing and control of sail twist.  The disadvantages are windage from the additional rigging and in the extra weight of the battens carried high up on the sail.

Thanks for your reply.  I hope this gets an interesting discussion going.  I've just received my plans and contruction booklet and I'm excited to get started.  I'm planning to build a scale model this winter and get started on contruction of the real thing next spring.

Ned Mellon