From: "David Beard" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: You guys alive?
Date: Sun, 3 Mar 2002 17:27:24 -0600

Good one Dave,

Not sleeping, I'm trying to get my bottom ready for the Roving. The weather should be right this week. Any tips for laying the Roving?

Thanks for contact on epoxy, I need to do a little research. I'm using west system. Too expensive!!!!!!!!!! I just bought 3 gal. of the stuff. OUCH!!!!

David

-----
On Sunday, March 03, 2002 4:52 PM, David LeBlanc wrote:
No postings for days 'n days! Did I fall off or is there a building frenzy
going on?

Couple of minor items:

My neighbor had a pet cockatoo, which keeled over in the cage. He took it to the vet, the vet took a brief look at the bird and said, "It's dead."

The neighbor said he'd like a second opinion, so the vet called in his pet
siamese. The cat took a look, pawed the bird once and said, "Yep. Bird's
dead, allright."

The neighbor said "I just can't accept the opinion of a stupid feline," so the vet calle his labrador retriever. The dog walked over, sniffed around
the bird carefully, licked it's wings and tailfeathers, sat down and said
"That, sirs, is one dead bird."

The neighbor finally gave up and asked for the bill. The vet handed him an
invoice for $328.00. The neighbor screamed in surprise and asked why the
bill was so high. Vet said, "$8.00 for my opinion, $320.00 for the cat scan
and lab report."

I also came across "Jamestown Distributors" and in case i'm not the last to
know here it is:
http://www.jamestowndistributors.com/cgi-local/SoftCart.exe/index.htm?E+store

I've been snooping around the woodenboat forum, and there's heaps of people
there with great ideas and help about building boats. One of the things I
discovered is that lots of people say favorable things about some of those
cheap "off brand" epoxies like from Raka (www.raka.com) and Fiberglass Epoxy
Products (http://www.epoxyproducts.com/marine.html). Considering the price
differential, that's very reassuring information to me!

If you're all snoozing, sorry to wake you up :)

Dave LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor 
ADVERTISEMENT

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.