From: "gilberj55" <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 03 Dec 2006 22:13:11 -0000
Subject: Re: Andrew Graham's Zero

Lead weighs a little more than 11 times the weight of water per unit 
volume. You might consider gold at 13 times or perhaps platinum at 
21....Concrete is something less than 3 times the weight of water. 
What that means is that you need almost 4 times the volume of 
concrete to get the same ballast weight, trying to keep the Centre of 
gravity in about the same spot. You loose quite a bit of stowing 
space. You can add as much steel perhaps re-bar into the mix as you 
can, perhaps needing about 3 times the volume of lead. Iron pigs will 
need about 2.5 times the space of the lead. 

Getting lead in the form of wheel balancing weights is not that 
difficult. Talk to one or two places where they do that, most likely 
they will think you a little odd but they are generally reasonable. 
casting it into pigs is also not very difficult. In the past I have 
converted about 1000 lbs into 10 lb pigs, a relativly pleasant job  
when in a well ventilate place and some cool beer nearby.

JG

I have another thought here....The water, though in fact a 
consumable, is also part of the ballast system. This is another 150 
odd pounds when full. If you reduce the total water because you stow 
it in bottles in the bilge as per the "Zero" you should keep this in 
mind.
Also to correct an error above....Steel or Iron would not need 2.5 
time the volume of lead but somewhat less than two times. 

Whatever type of ballast you use you should keep the Centre of 
Gravity in as close to the same spot as was designed as possible, 
with the same overall weight. As designed Paradox( I am assuming its 
the Paradox) shows between 70 and 180 KG of lead (150 to 400 lbs). 
More weight of ballast is better for sailing and stability but 
probably it reduces the total cruising stores you can carry before 
the boat starts to become overloaded.

JG

As I haven't found myself any lead as yet, I'm always interested in 
other ideas for ballast. Has anyone considered using concrete or 
would it take up to much space (haven't done any calculations!).

Pete 
Cheltenham, UK