From: "openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 16 Dec 2006 09:19:46 -0000
Subject: Re: Entering the Paradox

On 16 Dec 2006 at 8:04, Steve Blair wrote:

I'm new to this whole thing.
I've never really sailed and certainly never built a boat.
 
Any advice or encouragement for a ground-up beginner?

There is nothing complicated in the build, just straight forward step 
by step building, but expect it to take a couple of years before you 
are afloat.

This project has really inspired me, obsessed me even.  I want this
boat yesterday, but I can certainly wait a bit longer for everything
to take shape - indeed the "taking shape" part promises to be half the
fun!

I very much enjoy building things, and one of my other projects is to
build a scratch-built CAR called a "Locost" basically from steel
tubing and an old Toyota truck for donor parts.

Yet another of my projects is a 4-wheeled, 2 seat, recumbent quad
cycle, from several old huffy bikes.

If I get to know pedal drive systems well enough, and a Paradox
project moves ahead, I may try giving the boat a bit of pedal power
instead of the more standard scullery.

One of the big advantages of the Paradox is the 6ft x 3ft 6inch flat 
floor. It would be a shame to block it up with a pedal drive system. 
I did consider fitting a Hobi Mirage Drive to mine, but the trunk 
would have to be quite deep as the boat displaces 9 inches so I 
abandoned it. The best solution I could come up with was to mount the 
drive under the aft deck, which is much shallower due to the rocker, 
and pedal facing backwards.

I like to break from convention and dream big - this boat is anything
but conventional and I think it could be a dream come true.  I love
rivers, lakes, and water in general, and I LOVE to get away from it
all.  Everything I have read about this sleek little craft makes me
want one even more.


It is a nice relaxing and comfortable boat that is easy to sail. If 
you enjoy sailing on the edge fine tuning the rig to get the last 
little bit of speed then this is not the boat for you. If you want to 
relax and travel sedately in comfort then this may be the way to go.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>