From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Cabin Beams.
Date: Sat, 16 Dec 2006 22:54:15 -0000


On 16 Dec 2006 at 22:33, randoneur wrote:


I've marked out my chipboard for the production of the cabin beam 
jig, but studying sheet 10 has raised a few questions.

It would appear that i will need to fabricate the following beams:

6 cabin top beams and 3 hatch cover beams.

Now unlike the deck beams, there appears to be quite a bit of 
variation of sizes for the cabin beams, in fact only 3 appear to be 
of the same dimensions. Am I correct in assuming the following

1.The foremost cabin beam would appear to be 22mm by approx 44mm with 
a beveled fore and aft face. I assume the forward facing bevel will 
need to be picked up from the work after building the cabin framework.
(rear bevel not critical)

I have a pencilled note on my plans that this beam is 52mm. I made 
the forward bevel, and the bevel on the deck beam, with an angle 
grinder with a sanding disc. Standing in the cabin (without the roof 
on) it is possible to sight down the line of the bevel and shape them 
to match. Remember there is a curve side to side as well (not 
essential but it looks much better).

2. There are 2 aft cabin beams the lower one again 22mm x approx 72mm 
with an aft face critical bevel. The upper one is notched to "lock 
the hatch shut. Do you recommend the notch is routed out from a full 
sized beam or laminate it up with the notch in the right place?

Whatever is easiest for you. I don't have a router so I laminated it 
with a narrower bead on top. My note here says 75mm. I ground the 
rear bevels the same way as the front.

3. Similarly at the forward hatch opening the forward face is notched 
to take the weather seal. Again is it easier just to route this out 
from a full size beam?

Same again, I laminated it, but if you have a router that may be an 
easier route

Hope the questions aren't to daft!


The only daft questions are the ones you don't ask. 



Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>