From: BllFs6@aol.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 23 Dec 2006 18:32:21 EST
Subject: Re: Polycarbonate Windows


What is the best color for the windows? Some use black/smoky tint and and some water-clear. Is there a preference?
Steve Yahn


I have a feeling that tinted windows may impair night vision; therefore I am using clear, although I like tinted ones, particularly for use in a marina, should I ever go to one.

One thing to maybe try is a removable frame with a layer or three of window screen material...kind of a poor man's removable window tinting....

And something I've often thought about regarding polycarbonate windows....the good stuff aint cheap...and the thick good stuff certainly ain't cheap....but then if you aren't really careful in its use and cleaning then the stuff gets all scratched up/frosted etc. etc...

So, I've often though of sandwiching one thick layer between two very thin sacrificial layers...and just replacing the thin layers every so often....and there is probably an optical gel compatible with these materials that would make it nearly impossible to tell that there was more than one layer......

Which reminds me of a story....I worked at place once....building something to measure something when they blew up something...anyhow...I ordered a BIG sheet of thick lexan...not cheap AT ALL...normally when I buy anything I JUST HAVE TO PLAY WITH IT. Anything....box of bolts? Just Gotta open it up and look at em and handle emmmm...

Well, this lexan I ordered had a protective layer of cardboard glued to it on both sides...and I wanted SOOO bad to peel it off and look at this beauty....but I managed to control myself....because it was very important the stuff get NO scratches on it....well, it's coming down the wire for the big test...and I am only gonna be cutting the stuff up the day before the test to install in my device.....

Well...the night before I was to cut it up...I had a nightmare that the stuff was heavily tinted...and damn if when I came in the next morning and checked it WAS! 

OOHHHH crap! Thank gawd I was a little conservative on my assumptions/measurements of how much light I needed to get through it and the widget still worked fine...

The company readily admitted they had shipped out the wrong stuff and sent us a new sheet for free without us even asking!

Anyhow take care and happy holidays folks

Blll