From: "George" <gprivett1@yknet.yk.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 2006 22:48:44 -0000
Subject: Hatch/Roof Option

I recently bought plans and Don Elliot's instruction manual.

With a few days off work, I have looked through the postings on this site, at Bill's excellent site, www.smallsailboats.co.uk, and the wonderful files and photos on this site.

Although Paradox is designed primarily for single crusing, it seems that a common question is about space for a passenger to sit up and to sleep. Three builders have made mods to give more width for sleeping - Steve's "Ironsides", Graham's "Zero" and Kjell's "Paraplastic". -- very nice mods

There have been some suggestions about the open hatch not easily allowing two people to be in the sunshine and fresh air at the same time. I am not a designer or even a builder at this point, but I took some quick measurments from the plans and thought that someone might make a mod to lift the whole roof and hatch off together and store it inside. It would need to be tilted to get into the cabin then secured verticaly against the side.

I have not made any detailed sketches or scaled drawings yet. Perhaps this new roof could be fastened with bolts/wing nuts and sealed with a compressible rubber seal. The rest of the roof and hatch would be as per original plan.

I have not considered the safety, comfort or convenience issues, but there appears to have been at least one other "radical" mod where another builder has weighed these factors - Bengt's "Ladikan", where that rear half of the "cabin" slides forward over the front half and has an open back window. It is quite open to "rogue waves", but an interesing mod. - nice photos

With the roof off Paradox would be used for fairweather sailing or in becalmed weather using the yuhol or motor. It would be probably ok for day sailing, but less so for longer term cruising. Maybe the roof could be left at the dock.

When anchored, roof might be raised above the cabin on four posts fastened like the umbrella post in the "Zero". It would give a little more room for having lunch under a sunshade.

For longer single-handed cruises, the whole roof would be securely fastened down and Paradox would be used as designed.

Hmm, what the mind does when not occupied at work :-)

George Privett