From: "gilberj55" <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 30 Dec 2006 01:27:07 -0000
Subject: Re: Hatch/Roof Option

Hi all,

There are a lot of good points here...

I think a lot of folk are a little concerned about the small size of the Paradox. Many of us would like to have a reasonable option of taking a friend with us from time to time. As designed, with only about 3 feet width in the sleeping cabin, two adults better be pretty good friends. Most couples are now sleeping in Queen or King size beds, and a mere 'double' is about 4 1/2 feet wide. Certainly two can sleep, but there is not really much space. Even with two adults sitting in the cabin and or the hatchway for an extended day of sailing on a passage would need two people who were quite good together. Supposing you crew is a child or a grandchild it may...just may.... be easier. Really the Paradox is mainly for solo cruisers.

There has been some little work done towards developing a larger version of Paradox, basically increasing all the measurements by about 20% As I read it He used the same basic drawings, coming up with a boat 16'6.42" x 4'11.3" x 10.8" with a displacement of ~2310 lbs. This gives about 10" more bunk width. Another builder has eliminated the overlap of the scarf of the side panels, instead butting the pieces together, reinforced with a butt block. This added length, mainly in the living cabin.

As designed the Paradox is about the smallest reasonable deep sea boat in captivity. I would say it is better than some, perhaps most of the micro-voyagers some people have chosen for ocean crossings. It is very close to being fully self-righting (with this tiny size this is really important). It is easily sailed from inside, or with your head and shoulders out, or totally enclosed. It is very strong as designed and constructed. With the simple rig and small appendages it is quite fool proof and not easily subject to structural damage, even if rolled.

The Paradox is not the best boat, I think for family daysailing, or beach cruising on sheltered or partially sheltered waters. If sailing is a social activity for you......get, aquire, or build a boat that can carry a number of people. Kids with sand on their feet, beach and swimming toys, and of course appropriate cool beverages. There are quite a few designs available for building that far exceed the capacity of Paradox in those ways, that can still be towed behind a compact or sub-compact car ( most do not require lead ballast, others have less structure and furniture ), If you have a larger vehicle or easily available moorage, the small size of the Paradox no longer an advantage.

Matt has made some really impressive voyages with Paradox and her sisters proving his theories and creating a pretty complex and complete cruising machine. Most of us do not have the time, freedom or finances to make similarly serious voyages. The boat was close to perfect for Matts purposes. 

I too have been considering adjustments to make the boat fit my requirements a little bit better. My biggest concern is the size relating to having a crew. The idea of having a cabin which can be completely removable is about the best I have come up with so far ( I have small cars so the idea of going much larger is not my first choice ). By having a small ledge or coaming/carlin around the cockpit and a cabin unit which can be placed on deck and secured with some bolts or dogs, would indeed open up the people area for day-sailing in moderate weather, and still permit voyaging when desired. This does not solve the problem of cruising with a crew, but you could take a tent and sleep ashore when desired. Or you could combine the larger size and the removable house. I have also considered spreading the bulkheads 2, 3, &amp; 4 by 2"-4" total making other adjustments as necessary to the rest, to allow a slightly longer sleeping area. Its best I think to not increase the beam by any appreciable amount, as the chine runners would become less effective with greater curvature in the sides. 

The thing here is the basic boat is indeed very simply a plywood skiff and these sort of mod's are relatively easy. Each little change will have a knock-on effect, so If you don't have either a fair bit of related experience, and/or good problem solving skills I'd suggest you be very modest in any changes you might be considering.   

By the spring I may be going in completely different directions boat-wise or perhaps not with boats at all. For now I am quite enjoying considering how I might build and sail my Paradox. I think the boat as designed is very close to my needs and desires and limits. I am on big open water. I am wanting to make passages from time to time. There is a lot of fine wild coast and islands to see and experience, needing a good seaboat and self sufficiency. Paradox will do it.

JG