From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 2006 23:25:02 -0500
Subject: Re: Hatch/Roof Option

Hello All,

I pretty much abstain from making comments regarding changes to Paradox
but for what it's worth I will make the following, as I feel well
qualified. First I'm as much of a romantic sailor as any and the thought
of having an adoring partner aboard who loves the life style as I do
does indeed occupy my dreams as well. 

Unfortunately the reality of life is that it is just a dream. If you and your partner are young then you
can probably sail the seas in a paradox because you are agile, in love,
looking for adventure and broke and this is the only way you can make it 
happen and are willing to make the sacrifices, but if you have a few 
waves under your hull I think you will find that the fairer sex would 
much prefer more comfort then even a 16 or 18 foot Paradox would allow 
for any thing longer then 4 or 5 hours and you would be better off 
sticking to the original design and hoping that some lovely lass would 
find pity on you in one of your coastal ports of call and invite you 
home for a proper meal, a hot shower (not necessarily in that order),and 
a good nights sleep in a bed warmed by your host.

At least, having built and sailed a Paradox for the last five years that is my take on the 
situation. That said I went in search for a small vessel which was 
affordable, small, shallow drafted and sailed well that would 
accommodate a mate for more then just a few hours and what I found was a 
Peep Hen. 

At just about 14 feet, with a draft of 10 inches and weighing 
650 lbs it tows behind a small car very well. It has two nice berths 
that you can actually raise your knees in with out hitting the bottom of 
the cockpit, room for a porta pottie that resides out of the way and 
doubles as a step down into the cabin, a large cockpit, which can be 
converted into a double with very little effort and a galley area, which 
you can use in just about any weather. It is gaff cat rigged and can be 
launched and sailing in less time then my Paradox "Zoë". And most 
amazingly of all it really sails well. Not as well as "Zoë" but let's 
face it everything is a compromise. 

Nancy and I and two small dogs spent 
a weekend aboard "Zoë" sailing during the day and camping ashore in a 
tent in the evening and had a wonderful time. After acquiring the Peep 
Hen, "Hedwig" we spent four days and three nights aboard sailing around 
Cayo Costa with the "WCTSS" and there is no way she would have chosen 
"Zoë" over "Hedwig" for that adventure. What did we have to pay for 
Hedwig? She cost us a trip from Live Oak Fl. to the out skirts of Philly 
and back and $3000 dollars. About the same amount I paid for all the 
materials to build "Zoë" and a hell of a lot less time. Now I have a 
boat for just me and one for my mate and me and all is well in the 
universe. If I were to do it all over again I would get the Peep first 
and then build the Paradox for my self when sailing alone which is what 
I do 80% of the time.

Happy New Year to All and to All, a Well Set Anchor and Sound Sleep

Glen