From: John Doe <reallyfixed@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Why not scale?
Date: Sat, 20 Jan 2007 02:45:55 -0800 (PST)

From what I have been reading from David Gerr on increasing the size of boats, there are some changes that have to be taken into account. The stabily does not increase in a liniar fashion, so the boat may be overstable and handle differently or if one decreased the size of a design it could be unstable.  The structural strengh can diminish for the same materials if the increase is too large so it could call for structural analysis or at least perhaps overbuilding, or experience from testing to insure it would stand up well if one got caught in some really heavy weather or high seas. The cost of materials does not go up in linear fashion either. If it were me I would be sure to take all this into account if I went beyond the designers intent. 

George <gprivett1@yknet.yk.ca> wrote:          

I have been a member of this group for a few months, and it seems that there has been a fair bit of discussion on modifiying the Paradox design to increase the size. The designer, Matt, apparently has approved a modest increase in scale.

Some companies and boat designers who make a living designing boats often have similar designs in different sizes to meet different needs. Matt actually considered a couple of different versions of a bit larger Paradox (21' &amp; 23')and provides concept sketches in his disk that comes with his plans. It looks like a lot of thought went into these sketches, as was done for the original Paradox.

Perhaps if he was given enough incentive Matt might take some time from what he is doing to convert the concepts into a plan. Incentive? -- someone offering to pay for a design and someone actually building a prototype. It looks like this has been a practice with designs of Phil Bolger , John Welsford and Jim Michalak.

Maybe someone on this list could contact Matt to see if he would be interested and what the incentive might be, then poll the members to see how many would be interested sharing the costs of getting new plans made. There is a provision on this site to conduct a poll....

George


Now that's room service! Choose from over 150,000 hotels in 45,000 destinations on Yahoo! Travel to find your fit.