From: John Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 23 Jan 2007 09:51:43 -0500
Subject: Re: Ballasted Chine Runners

leave the politics out of it

Joe Mapango wrote:
It is possible we are just bantering around ideas. That in itself is not a bad idea.
I agree that trying to ballast the chinerunners would be a large extra outlay of work without clearcut benefit.
I don't think you understood my "wing" idea clearly at all. After reading your comments, I know you don't understand. The "wing" would bolt directly under the paradox and provide a shorter and higher aspect ratio runners. Matt Lyden's new boat enigma also has narrower, and higher aspect "wings". Correctly added to the boat, there would be NO additional draft. And again, you would get a lot of ballast down very low and in the middle, right where you want it. Lastly, you would benefit from being able to "tune" the runners by making them longer than you think you need, and via testing, shortening them down until you find an optimal setting (or just guess!!).

Ether way, banter is healthy and critical to the survival of a species. If the (US)"leader" would have discussed things with the people around him (in an open and honest way), he would not have started and lost a war killing tens of thousands with NO benefits and no positive outcomes.

Chris Curtis

Jeff wrote:
I just do not believe you guys.
Why would you want to do these mods when with a little more thought would show they give no positive benefit. In fact they would be a negative.
Internal removable ballast is just that. Removable.
Makes the boat lighter when removed and easier to move around on land.
Easier to trim the boat when afloat.
Casting a pair of chine runners in lead would be beyond most boatbuilders let alone an amateur.
Then there is the problem of fitting them as they taper to nothing forward.
Stability would also not be noticeably improved, plus the aft ends of the chine runners are bigger so would be the heaviest the weight the wrong way.
As designed, internal lead ballast is placed forward.

A 3/4" thick steel "wing".
If this is under the boat it will have to have a gap between hull and "wing". This would increase the draught which reduces PARADOX cruising usefulness and for trailer operations.
This wing would also increase the wetted surface. And you know what that does. Adds drag.
This "wing" Idea is not new and is an option that offer a shallow draught option on a lot of production cruising yachts world wide.
If designed properly would be of cast construction and a lot smaller, and on PARADOX would increase the draught by about an extra 16 to 18 inches. You would not be able to sail into a shallow bay, dry out and sleep on board as the boat would be likely to topple over or end up resting in its transom with the bow in the air. Most uncomfortable and undignified.
If the "wings" are fitted to the sides as chine runners this would give the boat a beam of 8 feet.
Both ideas proposed would give no benefit whatsoever, and only go to reduce the usefulness of the design.

Jeff UK