From: "gilberj55" <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 23 Jan 2007 19:16:24 -0000
Subject: Re: Ballasted Chine Runners

Hi 

I agree...I do not see how you can add something onto the bottom without increasing the draft, unless it goes near one or the other end of the boat and extends only to the maximum upright draft. You have a no improvement in the CG, plus increased drag, and a loss of the ballast value due to the buoyancy of the excrescence, and there is the issue of sailing balance. I don't see any gain, only losses....

Please supply some sketches because I do not understand what you are thinking from your description.

One of the important qualities of the Paradox is the shallow sailing draft, combined with a low CG The low aspect ratio of the chine rails allows the hull to be fairly efficient as lateral plane...kind of like end plates.

Putting the lead on the chine rails also seems to me to be a waste of time. From a strictly rational point of view it spreads the ballast weight out allowing for a slightly slower roll rate. This might be effective damping in some sea-states but there could certainly be times when the roll rate might synchronize with the waves, producing worse, possibly dangerous rolling. I'd actually be more inclined to consider running the lead along the centerline outside, in pieces perhaps 15"x6"x1" layed end to end, as per Herreshoff's Meadowlark. This would add an inch to the draft, but would provide some protection to the bottom. I haven't done the math but I suspect it might actually improve the roll charactaristics. In the end though I don't see a good argument of departing from the design in this regard.

John

Hi Chris.

By bolting the plate to the bottom it seems that you are talking about using it as external ballast not a wing. A wing would be shaped to help the boat go to windward.
2' x 6' x 3/4" is a heavy lump of steel. It would also increase the draught by 3/4".
Where would you get this piece of steel bent to the shape of the hulls bottom?
Its not the thickness of steel that you can hit with a lump hammer. You will need a roller mill. Thats going to cost. You could not even shape it if it was only 1/4" thick.
The other way you could be talking about is if the wings actually came out the side but as you probably know about the Center of Lateral Resistance and the Center of Bouyancy it cannot be that. In other words the "wings" would have to be centered over the Center of Lateral Resistance, which is just forward of frame 3, which might not be where the trimming lead ballast is fixed. You could always fit some removable lead forward to counteract this.
Besides this would make the boat 6' wide locally under the water and would take a lot of grinding to get the shape right. It would be a danger to anyone wading up to have a look at the boat as well.
When sailing and heeled the draught would be more than a PARADOX as built. Sailing in shallow water would not be relaxed.
If you get the balance for one type of sailing right it might not do for another, as in sailing by yourself with the boat empty or cruising with a load of stores. It is an easy matter to trim the ballast.
Then there would be the bolt holes that need to be waterproof not to mention the beefing up of the area around them. Extra holes below water are to be avoided.
If you will look through the past threads you will find discussions on ballast and how much is needed by members that have actually built a PARADOX.
If I have yet got it wrong please post a scanned thumbnail sketch in the photo section.
The beauty of the interal ballast is you can go sailing and if the trim is wrong, move the ballast, add or remove more far easier than going down the external way.
And remember. The hull still has to be covered in epoxy and glass cloth.
And if you are going to fit a O/B motor then you will need internal ballast as well.
That aside, if you could get over these problems and not want to beach the boat or sail in shallow water and sort out recovering the boat onto a trailer I think it might work.
Me. I will stick to chine runners. A lot less hassle. Far more practical.

Jeff UK

It is possible we are just bantering around ideas. That in itself is
not a bad idea. 

I agree that trying to ballast the chinerunners would be a large extra
outlay of work without clearcut benefit.

I don't think you understood my "wing" idea clearly at all. After
reading your comments, I know you don't understand. The "wing" would
bolt directly under the paradox and provide a shorter and higher
aspect ratio runners. Matt Lyden's new boat enigma also has narrower,
and higher aspect "wings". Correctly added to the boat, there would
be NO additional draft. And again, you would get a lot of ballast
down very low and in the middle, right where you want it. Lastly, you
would benefit from being able to "tune" the runners by making them
longer than you think you need, and via testing, shortening them down
until you find an optimal setting (or just guess!!).

Ether way, banter is healthy and critical to the survival of a
species. If the (US)"leader" would have discussed things with the 
people around him (in an open and honest way), he would not have
started and lost a war killing tens of thousands with NO benefits and
no positive outcomes.

Chris Curtis