From: "moppley2002" <hugmiller@hotmail.com>
Date: Wed, 24 Jan 2007 05:00:48 -0000
Subject: Petite Lady home
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

Hello all,

I just brought my Paradox home from my tidal mooring (despite being summer) for the first time in 4 years. This is just to let you all know that she is still in excellent condition although I have not done maintenance, apart from washing with salt water while she was on the mooring.

The bottom is in excellent condition - I had given her a coat of resin and copper dust when I put her in the water and given her a rub with a scotchbrite pad about once a year, the coating is still in good condition and will only need burnishing to put her back on the mooring.

The interior is also good - all my floors are hinged to my side panels to gain acces to the bilges, I carry my water in separate water containers. When I built her I did not make any real deviations from the plans, the minor a;terations I made were simply to curve my front and rear cabin ends and cut the windows shorter than the plans rather than have them full length of all the cabin sides.

My yuloh is a curved Chinese type which I operate on a stainless steel type towball. I have a 2 hp air cooled Honda outboard which seems to push the boat at about hull speed. I only take the outboard when I am going a reasonable distance and may need to catch the tide. I prefer and only use the yuloh when I am in no real hurry, I find it more convenient and easier to use than the motor and do not have to worry about the mainsheet catching the motor.

I was considering selling until I brought her home and I started to remove the interior, (I am now in my 71st year) and I realised how much I enjoy and have used this little boat, To my mind she is perfect for my purpose. Although I have not sailed marathon distances. I think the furthest I have cruised is 40 nm up the coast, then cruised around and sailed back to my mooring. What I am getting at is that I would not change anything in my boat - everything is so well thought out it suits me perfectly. It has always taken me to where I wanted to go and once brought me home in 30 knot winds.

I often read of people wanting to make radical changes to a Paradox, I personally would not bother. The craft is exceptionally capable for its size.

Regards to all,
Hugh (New Zealand)