From: openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 08 Mar 2007 18:50:15 -0000
Subject: Re: Time to build and cost?

On 7 Mar 2007 at 21:34, Steve Blair wrote:


It cost about 2500UKP and took me about 18 months of evenings and weekends, fairly continuous building, with just the odd week off.



W O W !!

That's a LOT of work!
With that kind of time frame, it should take ME about 6-10 years.

What could be done to shorten this timeframe?  I just want a solid, safe boat that sails well and doesn't need to live in the water (no more than a few days at a time, probably)

There must be lots of boats out there that fit that description. Your cheapest/quickest solution is probably to buy second hand. 



I know I could get away without 'glassing the hull, and I cut back on finishing the interior, stressing function over form.  Paint vs. varnish, galvanized hardware instead of brass, etc.

There is virtually no interior, or fittings for that matter.


I'm not even against using ROOFING TAR for waterproofing.  If it's good enough for the ancient ships, it's good enough for me.

So seriously, if you had to build one in a week, no matter what it looked like in the end, could you?  A month?  Two months??  What bits took the most time and/or expense?

I'd like to be sailing a Paradox-like craft by next summer, and I have maybe an hour or two each weekday plus maybe 4 hours each weekend day.

I'm willing to break from modern convention but I don't want to sacrifice safety.



I measured (and measured again) and cut and glued/nailed and sanded and cut some more, and eventually it was finished. I looked round and 18 months had passed. I don't think you could significantly reduce the building time (an experienced builder in a well equipped shop may do it in half the time) by taking shortcuts. If you want a quick boat, you don't want a Paradox.

If you could pull the lines off pictures on the various web sites you could maybe build an Enigma in that time. But then you lose out on all the refinements that Matt has built into his craft. You can't see 'refinements' in a photo.



Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>