To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
Date: Fri, 09 Mar 2007 21:59:44 -0000
Subject: Re: Yuloh

I made my yuloh from a solid piece of spruce, but I failed to incorporate a 30mm longitudinal concave curve into it. I'm about to modify the yuloh, but drawing 3 shows at least a 50mm concave curve when measured from the centre of the yuloh at right angles to a straight line between the tip of the blade and the end of the shaft. Which is preferable?

I don't think it really matters much. I made mine by laminating 2 bits together with weights on each end and a 30mm block of wood under the middle. A bit more curvature would make it nest on the deck better.

One of the confusing instructions about the yuloh drawing on sheet 12, is the word `forward', represented by For'd because to my knowledge there is no forward part of yuloh, unless this is a designer nomenclature.

For maximum forward thrust the blade would be vertical in the water and would have a forward face. In the real world the blade enters the water at something like 45 degrees, so the lower face is also the forward face.

Quite clearly, the lower side, or under side of the blade has a greater cord (curvature) than the upper side. I've searched many places on the Internet, but nowhere can I find a clear picture or diagram showing this characteristic. I've also searched the archives of this group.

When the yuloh is in use I assume the flatter side of the blade is uppermost, and yet from the poor photos on the Internet, the opposite would appear to be the case.

This has left me confused.

To produce lift a wing has one surface more curved, and therefore longer than the other. The fluid must pass over this surface faster than over the shorter and, according to Bernouilli, this causes a reduction in pressure and a force in that direction. The lifting surface of the blade is the lower/forward surface and this, therefore has more curvature. How much effect this actually has in practice is anyones guess.

Am I correct in assuming the centre of the pivot socket is 1350 mm from the top of the shaft and 1650 mm from the tip of the blade?

Yes, though I have just made a second socket in my yuloh about 100mm nearer the handle as I didn't feel I was doing much work with it as it was. I thought the increased gearing may enable me to scull the boat a little faster. I'll find out in a few weeks.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>