From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2002 14:47:31 -0000
Subject: Alternative Epoxies

I've used West System epoxy for years, but I think the product is getting very expensive so I have been looking for other alternatives.  At the moment I am buying West epoxy by the gallon, but if I were to start a big project I might consider another brand. 

I've tried a sample of the RAKA brand, and I found it a little too flexible and hard to sand for my taste. It seemed to gum up my sandpaper. Maybe I just mixed it wrong or used too small of an amount for the test.  I will have to try it again.  Last winter I used FASCO epoxy while repairing SWAMP THING in Key Largo.  She had worm damage on her chine runners and had banged up against the dock or something.  A friend at the marina had some FASCO brand epoxy and I used it exclusively for glueing and filling (with glass/microballons).  It took a while to cure (overnight), and I thought at first the catalyst was old.  However, it must have been the "tropical" formula (slow) and by morning everything was ready to sand. Anyway, it worked great and sanded a lot easier than WEST.  I believe Chris Morejohn told me that FASCO is the brand he used while building his boats in the Keys.  You can get some at http://www.tikiwatersports.com/tiki/products.htm.  Matt Layden and Don Elliott used System Three while building their Paradox', and they got a price break by buying in quantity.

Incidently, Little Cruiser was built using "Defender Industries" generic epoxy, and we have experienced no delaminations whatsoever in the boat or spars in almost ten years of hard use. I think Matt used this epoxy on all his earlier boats too. 

From what I can tell, it is possible to use a lot of different epoxies for general boat building. My recommendation is to try a small amount of the brand you are interested in and see how it works.  Some epoxies are a little thicker and work better for glueing, while others are thinner and excel at laminating.  I would love to see a side by side comparison of all the major brands and generics.  I'd bet the results would surprise everyone.  Maybe that's why that information (as far as I know) is not available.  Must be all those advertising dollars at work...