From: Perry Phillips <perrywphillips@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 1 Apr 2007 04:34:29 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Number of Paradox's built to date

Bill,

Thanks for sending your blog url.  I took a quick look at it (liked the marathon comparison to boat building).  It is early Sunday morning here and as is my habit I get up early and go over my lessons for church, so I've marked Bill's Log in my favorites along with Smallboats UK, and will visit them often.  I've never maintained a blog before, so this is a new experience for me.  I'm not at all sure I have that much to say.  I suppose we shall see.  

Bobber is a very interesting boat.  She always draws a lot of attention with her junk rig.  I can't seem to get people to accept that all of those lines actually simplify things.  One look and they begin to comment on how complicated it looks.  This is one of my concerns with Paradox.  It looks simple, but I immediately begin to question how it will function in comparison to the junk rig.  With Bobber, I need only release one line and the sail folds neatly into the lazy jacks and the boat immediately stops.  It takes only seconds.  How will the Paradox window shade arrangement compare?  It seems only reasonable that I must take up on one line as I gradually release another.  That cannot be as fast or simple.  I don't mean this as a criticism, since it is obviously better control than one would have on a sloop.  I'm simply wondering if Bobber has spoiled me!  

My first planned trip for Bobber this spring will be a journey down the Alabama River from the first lock and Dam to the head of Mobile Bay.  This is about a 75 mile journey, I'm told.  I am still trying to locate charts of the river system.  The trip will be south west in direction and much of it through narrow tree lined waters with a following current of about 3 mph.  I will post the results of the trip in Bobber's Log.  

Better run for now!

Perry


Perry W. Phillips
Monroeville, Alabama

Sailing Bobber
Junk Rigged 1969 British C-Type West Wight Potter
http://www.sailblogs.com/member/bobberslog/
 
---------------------------------
TV dinner still cooling?
Check out "Tonight's Picks" on Yahoo! TV.