From: "barnacleid" <william@serjeant5445.fslife.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 04 Apr 2007 19:57:25 -0000
Subject: Re: Progress on building 'Faith', my Paradox Sailboat


I still have not worked out how to make the socket.  It needs to be 
made of a tough material able to withstand wear from the ball and yet 
run smoothly.  Well greased metal to metal is probably the answer, 
somthing like a unversal joint from a bit of machinery.  Because the 
yuloh is stowed beside the cabin trunk there would not be room for a 
permanent universal joint fixed to the yuloh ready for insertion into 
a shaft on the transom.  The universal joint would have to be a 
separate item inserted every time is isused, which is not clever as 
it could be lost over the side.

What solutions have others found for the yulon support?  


Copper against a harder metal may not survive for long.  Stainless 
steel tubing could be an answer.

This is a useful observation.  On a heavy boat like Paradox, sheeting 
in when gybing should be OK, but with a junk sail the procedure is to 
allow the boom to make a full swing, so that immediately after the 
gybe, all power is taken from the sail.  The battens keep the sail 
under control.  With a standng lugsail the boom could rise if the 
sail is not sheeted in prior to gybing and you would get what's known 
as a Chinese gybe.


A rowlock is fine for sculling, but would not be as efficient for 
yulohing - too much friction and wear on the yuloh.

I'll have to pinch your idea.

It seems I'm miles away.  There's an awful lot of fiddly stuff in the 
cabin trunk.  I've fixed the plywood sections to the deck ready for 
attaching the window frames which I'm hoping to do tomorrow because 
the air temperature should be around 15 degrees C.

I've put a second wedge into the yuloh shaft, this time at the handle 
end and it now fits a treat on the side deck.

I made a holder for the bower anchor which stows upright in the cabin 
near the tunnel to the forecastle, but I haven't worked out where to 
put the kedge anchor.  I would like to have it on the stern deck, but 
I think the mainsheet would snag it.  The advantage of having it on 
deck is that mud and weed does not get caried below.  Having it on 
the foredeck means one has to get forward for anchoring, which under 
some circumstances would not be practical.


You've got it all worked out - retired, and yet not retired.  I'm 
still hoping we'll be able to do some cruising together this summer.  
I would dearly like to sail to the Scilly Isles, as I know you have 
mentioned your interest in this too.

If Faith is finished in time I want to sail from Exmouth to Dartmouth 
and back during the last week of June, then trail the boat to 
Plymouth for a cruise up the Tamar, back down again, then to the 
Yealm before returning to Plymouth.  From there trail to Falmouth and 
spend a few days on the Fal estuary and if the weather is settled, 
sail to the Scilly Isles - that would be around mid July for a return 
to Falmouth by the end of July.

If you can join me on any of this, I'd be pleased.  The Dinghy 
Cruising Association may be having meetings in the West Country - 
I'll have to find out.

All of this, of course, will only be possible for me if I can 
get 'Faith' finished in time.

Cheers,
Bill.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>