From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 05 Apr 2007 20:47:41 -0000
Subject: Re: Progress on building 'Faith', my Paradox Sailboat

I haven't worked out where to put the kedge anchor.  I would like to have it on the stern deck, but I think the mainsheet would snag it. The advantage of having it on deck is that mud and weed does not get caried below. Having it on the foredeck means one has to get forward for anchoring, which under some circumstances would not be practical.

There is roughly a triangle, with the base along the rear of the cabin and the apex at the rudder, that is clear of the sheet. I did toy with the idea of fitting my Bruce anchor there, but couldn't find a way to mount it neatly, also this area is useful for standing on when entering or leaving the boat.

If I can get the kedge anchor on the stern deck I would prefer it, although getting in and out of the boat may be more difficulf.

Going to the fore deck to anchor is not a good solution. It would be almost impossible to go forward safely with the sail up, and sometimes it is better to have the sail up (at least part of the way) before lifting the anchor

I would dearly like to sail to the Scilly Isles, as I know you have mentioned your interest in this too.

Yes, that's definitely a good plan.

I really hope we can do this.

If Faith is finished in time I want to sail from Exmouth to Dartmouth and back during the last week of June, then trail the boat to Plymouth for a cruise up the Tamar, back down again, then to the Yealm before returning to Plymouth. From there trail to Falmouth and spend a few days on the Fal estuary and if the weather is settled, sail to the Scilly Isles - that would be around mid July for a return to Falmouth by the end of July.

If you can join me on any of this, I'd be pleased. The Dinghy Cruising Association may be having meetings in the West Country - I'll have to find out.

There is a meeting on the Tamar 2nd June and on the Exe 16th June so it look as though you will just be in time to miss them :-( Still, I should be able to join you for some of the time and definitely for the crossing to Scilly.

I am interested that you would sail from Falmouth. I would have expected Penzance to be the natural jumping off point.

The first hop would be from Falmouth to Newlyn where to to rest, and from there take a full day to get to St Mary's, Isles of Scilly.
Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>