From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2007 20:53:54 +0100
Subject: Re: Cabin top beams, forward and aft windows

I fitted the forward beam and the aft beam and the central beam to the cabin top today. Is it really necessary to fit another beam between the forward beam and the central beam? When I made the beams nearly two years ago, I was under the impression there were only 3 cabin top beams upon which the plywood was laid, but now I note there is one between the forward and central one. I suppose it has to be there to provide strength, sufficient to withstand the weight of a person sat there, perhaps when in harbour. The fibreglassing will strengthen the structure, but would it be enough to dispense with the missing beam?

There are mysterious forces at work! Someone has snuck in and drawn in an extra roof beam on my plans. I am sure it wasn't there when I built Little Jim.

You may have gathered from this that I have only 3 roof beams on my Paradox. I have never missed, or felt the need for a fourth. When in harbour the hatch will usually be open, so the roof is not accessible for sitting or falling on.

Did anyone find difficulty in bending the polycarbonate around the forward and aft sections of the cabin trunk? I note the upper forward beam is shown in the plan with a straight edge and yet the lower part of the window has to bend around a significant curve. The same applies to the aft window, although there is not such a great difference.

I don't remember any difficulty in bending the windows. The polycarbonate is very flexible, I had a 20mm x 300mm (approx) offcut which I was able to bend into half a reef knot. Although it looks straight in the plan view if you look at the side view (sheet 1) you will see that it is not flat, due to the vertical curvature.

I found the easiest way to get the profile of the top and bottom beams to match up was to stand inside with an angle grinder (with a nice course sanding disc) and sight down the 2 beams. I just nibbled away at it freehand till it looked ok, with the occasional testing with a baton and straight edge. Then I made hardboard templates for the glazing. By tacking these in place you get further confirmation that all is fair (and you can always fill any gouges with epoxy).

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>