From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2007 21:57:35 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin top beams, forward and aft windows


I fitted the forward beam and the aft beam and the central beam to  the cabin top today.  Is it really necessary to fit another beam between the forward beam and the central beam?  When I made the beams  nearly two years ago, I was under the impression there were only 3 cabin top beams upon which the plywood was laid, but now I note there is one between the forward and central one.  I suppose it has to be there to provide strength, sufficient to withstand the weight of a person sat there, perhaps when in harbour.  The fibreglassing will strengthen the structure, but would it be enough to dispense with the missing beam?

Did anyone find difficulty in bending the polycarbonate around the forward and aft sections of the cabin trunk?  I note the upper forward beam is shown in the plan with a straight edge and yet the lower part of the window has to bend around a significant curve.  The same applies to the aft window, although there is not such a great difference.

If you place a rule on the plans showing the front and back beams of the cabin top you will note that they are absolutely straight.  Hence my query about difficulty in making the polycarbonate fit, but as you have explained the flexibility of the material should allow it to be done without too much trouble.  I would have thought having a curve on the forward beam would be better for shaping the window.

Because a good seal is required on the aft end of the hatch, a straight edge to the aft beam would be necessary.

I'll have to make a judgement here. Have you ever stood on the front part of the cabin top?

When in harbour the hatch will usually be open, so the roof is not accessible for sitting or falling on.

I found the easiest way to get the profile of the top and bottom beams to match up was to stand inside with an angle grinder (with a nice course sanding disc) and sight down the 2 beams. I just nibbled away at it freehand till it looked ok, with the occasional testing with a baton and straight edge. Then I made hardboard templates for the glazing. By tacking these in place you get further confirmation that all is fair (and you can always fill any gouges with epoxy).

This method has worked for you; not doubt it will work for me too.  Thanks.

Bill.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>