From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2007 20:16:56 -0000
Subject: [SPAM] Re: Cabin top beams, forward and aft windows

As I have your old sail, perhaps you could let me know how much better the mark two version is.  Does it give an extra half knot when going to windward in force 3?

Bill.

Jeff wrote:
Hi Al and Bill.
I  have just posted a few pictures taken over the last couple of days that might be of interest.
They show my cabin top which I have done away with the roof beams.
I have laminated the roof top from two layers of 3.5mm ply which will rest on the 1/2" plu cabin sides and be stitch and glued into place. An external beam will be added in way of the foreward hatch combing and a truss in way of an aluminium tube will bend from the cockpit combing, attatched in the middle under the hatch combing then to the opposite side.
That should take any down load and side thrust to the cabin.
The foreward window frame is made from two layers of ply laminated and S&amp;G'd into position.
This I feel will be just as strong but a bit lighter.
Today I dry fitted the first of the chine runners.
The 20mm Scottish Douglas Fir is so tough that I broke a drill on it and I had to place saw cuts along two edges on each layer to make it bend around the hull.
My chine runners on NOLI are 54" long by 2 5/8" wide.
I have cut them at 35 degree's but have thought I will be adding some hollow in the top face. 
Thursday I will be going to see my sail maker to order the sail.
Has anyone had some more thought on the new PARADOX sail?

Glen
I love my new sail (the mark II). It was built by Dabbler Sails and sets perfectly. Stu has a lot of experience with the lug sail and I can highly recommend him.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users.
It has removed 17673 spam emails to date.
Paying users do not have this message in their emails.
Try SPAMfighter <http://www.spamfighter.com/len> for free now!