From: "randoneur" <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2007 22:50:21 -0000
Subject: Lack of progress report!

Hi all,

Where has the time gone? I've been tied up with one thing and another, but hopefully I'm now in a position to actually make a start on JoHanna.

I've finally sorted out my boat shed which will just about accommodate my build, being 15'x7', but with room outside for when the weather's good.

I cut out Bulkheads 2, 3, and 4 from some scrap cardboard last night to get a feel for the size - I was quite surprised how small the bulkheads actually looked when stood up on their own!

I've ordered my Far Eastern Ply so await delivery and can start cutting for real.

On marking out the "make believe" bulkheads, I noticed there does not appear to be side cleats on Bulkhead 3 and 4, although there are dotted lines shown on #4. It's hard to see from the photos if these should have cleats or not. I'd be tempted to put them in anyway.

Cutting Ply. What did you use to cut your ply? The noticeable thing is the great lack of any straight cuts (apart from the bottom). Will a circular saw cut the curves freehand accurately enough? Is it best to rough cut with a jigsaw oversize and plane down to the line? Is it worth trying to put a bevel on the ply before the cleats are attached or just plane down the whole thing once glued up?

The sides of the bulkheads are curved with a few mms offset from true. Where did you measure this offset - At the midpoint of the vertical section?

Don Elliot suggests using 6mm ply for the deck beams. This sounds like a quick and easy method but all the pictures I've seen appear to show solid wood laminates. Any thoughts?

Finally for now, what wood did you use for the interior cleats, etc.? I'm hoping to get some Douglas fir planed for most of the fittings. I've read about the problems of getting DF to bend enough for the Chine and sheers. Is it worth looking for something with a bit more give or just opt from the outset to laminate the Chine logs (and sheers if necessary)?

I could also get the sheer and chines planed to size as per the plans. I'm worried, however, that doing so won't leave any excess wood for fairing in on the deck and bottom when it actually comes to fitting the ply and relies on accurate plans and my accurate assembly. What do you think?

It's good to see lots of activity on here and look forward to the day when we have a UK rally...

Pete