From: Perry Phillips <perrywphillips@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: New file uploaded to paradoxbuilders
Date: Sun, 15 Apr 2007 05:54:47 -0700 (PDT)

You should have received notice of a file uploaded to the group file area. I am in the process of researching the build of my own Paradox. There seem to be two general thoughts about boat design relating to the Paradox. The first calls for no deviation from the original plans, and the second recognizes the practicality of modification of the design to fit personal tastes and needs.
 
Of the many yacht designers out there, Jay Benford, Robert Perry, Carl Alberg (now deceased), and numerous others, such personalization was common place and often included the designer's participation in modifications. I love the Paradox design, and all the things said about her being a sailing system are obvious. In truth, any boat with any rig is a sailing system, so there really isn't anything profound about that statement. 
 
The world does not consist of a "one size fits all" reality. Everyone does not wear a size 10 shoe. Some designer may have created the greatest size 10 shoe in existence, but it is useless to someone with a size 13 foot. That being said, I would appreciate you looking at the files that I have uploaded for a Hasler/McLeod Junk Rig option for the Paradox. I have designed and implemented Junk sail rigs for several other boats and personally like the rig. 
 
The change of the sail rig should simplify some of the construction needs of the boat since much relates to the specific elements of the Paradox lug sail and furling system. Positive and negative comments are welcome since this is an exercise in viability. Opinions will vary, and that is understandable. Please do not take offense at the suggested changes; I am certain that the merits of the Paradox as designed will remain untainted.
   
Thank you for your participation and responses in advance.
   
Sincerely,
   
Perry Phillips
   
Perry W. Phillips
Monroeville, Alabama

Sailing Bobber
Junk Rigged 1969 British C-Type West Wight Potter
http://www.sailblogs.com/member/bobberslog/ 

---------------------------------
Ahhh...imagining that irresistible "new car" smell? 
Check out new cars at Yahoo! Autos.