From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Bulkhead #3 and general layout query.
Date: Tue, 24 Apr 2007 10:05:44 +0100


On 23 Apr 2007 at 22:42, randoneur wrote:

OK, I feel something progressing now!

My 10 sheets of ply arrived this morning, so this evening I made a start at laying out the bulkhead #3.

The "deck" area (i.e. fom the sheer line towards midships) appears to be drawn as a straight line, wheras all other bulkheads follow the crown shown on bulkhead #2.

Before I fire up the jigsaw, did  you cut this as a straight line or follow the deck curvature as per other BHs?

Either way I'm sure it makes little diference. it just looked a bit nicer when I drew it with a bit of curve.

You're right, it doesn't make any difference as the top (and bottom) of the bulkheads will be fared in to match the deck (and bottom) after the sides and b'heads are assembled.

I picked Bulkhead 3 to start so that I could get rid of one sheet of 18mm asap - those babies are a right handful to move around on your own.

Wait till you have scarfed the 2 sheets together!

I wanted to also cut out the rudder stock at the same time, but am woried about the palcement of the parts and leaving enough material for the forward part of the bottom. I imagine the bottom needs to be made to fit at assembly;  is there plenty of spare wood if i squeeze the rudder in to take up as little space as possible, or is it best to wait and make do with the cut-offs after fitting the bottom?

You are right to worry, on UK ply there is not enough width to cut out both the complete rudder halves (are US sheets wider?), the tip of the 'beak' falls off the edge. I ended up cutting one half of the rudder from the waste inside b'head 3, even though that puts the outside grain the wrong way. Then I cut the other half in the location shown, but moved it outboard a few inches, losing more beak but making sure there is plenty for the bottom. A beak infill piece was cut from scrap and the 3 parts assembled.
I also found I couldn't fit all the parts on the sheet with the transom. By reordering the parts as shown in 'drawing changes' in the Files section I was (just) able to make them fit.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>