From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2007 20:24:26 -0000
Subject: Re: 'Faith's' Progress

Paradox being a heavy boat for her size means she needs a pretty 
substantial trailer, which ideally should have auto brakes. The one 
I bought off Derek does not have brakes, but I'm thinking I may have 
to have it converted. Brakes can cause problems when immersed. Al, 
of course, does not need to submerge the axles of his purpose made 
trailer. The more weight a trailer needs to carry the more 
substantial it must be; hence it becomes more costly to build.

I have just trimmed the surplus glass cloth from around the edge of 
the chine runners. I waited till the glass was "green"(not fully 
cured), and ran a knife around the edge using the underside as a 
guide. See photo in NOLI's file.
Cutting when 'green' saves an awful lot of work and can be done quite 
neatly with a sharp knife.

Using PeelPly has resulted in quite a smooth rounded edge finish as 
can be seen in the photo's. Its well worth the extra effort.

We have a rough schedule in mind. Basically we hope to meet somewhere 
in the Falmouth, Newlyn, Penzance area around mid July, but we'll 
simply keep in touch and let the each other know where we are and 
what we are doing.

Around the last week of June I'm hoping to sail 'Faith' from Exmouth 
to Dartmouth and back. From there I want to visit Plymouth by road 
and launch perhaps at Cargreen. After exploring the Tamar and over 
to Cawsands I want to take the boat by road to Falmouth for sailing 
on the Fal, from where I hope to venture with Al to the Scilly Isles - 
it all depends on the weather, and more importantly on my progress 
with building 'Faith' and testing her with a cruise to the Walton 
Backwaters from Burnham on Crouch around mid June. That's crucial.  
If I'm not satisfied with the boat's performance, everything will 
have to be revised.

I do not have one of those miniature modern camcorders, but I do have 
a very bulky old-fashioned one that I would not be keen to take 
aboard. My mobile phone camera only takes poor quality still photos. 
I have a primitive digital camera I shall take when cruising.

Hope all goes well for you.
Cheers,
Bill.