From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2007 20:56:26 -0000
Subject: Re: JoHanna Progress

Have a look at this photo of 'Faith's' transome

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/build/stern_view.jpg

which has the 5m of curvature on either side.  I think it adds something to the appearance.  Others may perfer to have absolutely straight sides.

I used ply for all of my beams.  Have a  look at:

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/build4.htm

and any of the early build pages from links there.

Try knocking some bronze ring nails of the right size into the pine to see if it splits.  If it does then buy the Douglas fir.

Thanks Bill.
I drew the 5mm  curvature onto the transom. To be honest it hardly 
looks worth the hassle! I'll decide when I come to cut it out.
Should Bulkhead 4 also have some curvature?

There are some nuances with Paradox only visible to those who have an 
eye for her; for example, the shape of the transom with slightly 
bowed-out sides; the mid frame, number 3 has straight sides; frames 2 
and 4 are also bowed out.  When you glance down the side of the boat 
from astern you can see these features, which although subtle, I am 
convinced were incorporated in the design for making her a better sea 
boat.  Imagine her when heeled while going to windward as the leeward 
edge of the stem just cuts the water; the boat moves ahead causing an 
apparent flow of the water which is forced out as it meets the chine 
runner where the traditional sine wave is disturbed - indeed broken; 
hence lift is produced and boat can break away from what holds her 
back; a series of small waves are formed along the leeward side of 
the hull rather than one big hollow form and the water runs unimpeded 
to slip away from the corner of the transom which in effect acts like 
a slippery canoe stern.  Matt is an exceedingly clever, astute 
designer of boats.

I had a quick try at bending some deck beams tonight using some scrap 
ply. To be honest 6mm seems far to small, 12 mm was easily bendable 
although I think it could have a bit of spring back.
I think I'll use 9mm as the sheet I have for the internal bin sides 
etc isn't going to be used for some time, and I can repalce it 
further down the line or even use some locally obtained ext grade as 
those parts aren't structural in any way.

I can't remember what thickness of ply I used but I was careful to 
make sure they ended up with the correct dimensions, especiall those 
for cabin top and hatch so that the latter would be able to be lifted 
over the retaining bit on the top.  The beam on the front of the 
hatch as to be the correct vertical thickness, just right to go over 
the cabin top and yet to be prevented from passing over the beam at 
the front of the cabin top opening.  Measurements need to be taken 
pretty accurately, otherwise it will make for more work later on.

I've decided just to wait till the weekend and pick out some Douglas 
fir from the local timber yard.

Your pictures of "Faith" look great. It looks like you're almost 
there. Are you going to remove the windows before painting etc.
I'd hate to get them all spotted with paint and covered in dust!

I've purposely fixed them before painting.  There will be no 
difficulty or problems keeping them free of paint; however I've run 
into a bit of a problem with the front of the cabin top, because as I 
have reasoned and discussed on this group, it needs to have some 
convex curvature forward to accommodate the bend of the Polycarbonate 
which is 6 millimetres thick; because of this I have to build a 
fillet to the front.  I wished I had allowed for it to start with, as 
I had enough ply.

Another question to Bill. Where did you get the wheels for your 
makeshift trolley. I expect I'll need something similar so I can move 
the boat outside on the hot days. It was 30C in my boat shed at the 
weekend, and it isn't summer yet!

Regards

Pete
http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/