From: "randoneur" <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk>
Date: Fri, 01 Jun 2007 23:24:40 -0000
Subject: Vent Trunk Query
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

With my bulkheads more or less complete, I'm thinking about building the vent trunk before the hull assembly (I believe it's easier that way)

How is the top of the vent trunk attached to bulkhead 2? Do you notch a dado or install a cleat? It doesn't appear to show any detail in the plans. Where does the 18mm front piece come from? Is there enough ply left from the bottom sheeting to accomaodate this? So far I've only cut out bulkhead 3 from the 18mm sheet, but I need to get the forward bottom panel and the 2 rudder stock pieces. I don't know that will leave much for the vent trunk. I've looked at the photo's of Bill's and Glen's vent trunks but the construction is still a bit odf a mistery!

Bill, on your photo's I notice that the port cleat for the vent trunk appears to have  been shifted outboard more to port (from the lines originally drawn on the bulkhead). Was the original marking a mistake or is this a design change?

I notice on my cleats that they do not seem as splayed as yours, but they are as per the drawing with 250mm between cleat sides at the deck level.  I hope they're right because they're bonded solid in epoxy!

As I have no mast yet so I also intend to build a dummy short bottom section so that I can get the mast foot fitting correct. This might make it easier for me to undersatnd the mast drawing at the same time:-)

The drain pipe. No one ever mentions this! Matt says to use 1" PVC pipe. Will epoxy adhere to this? it doesn't seem to bond very well to all the PVC mixing sticks and squegees I've been using. Should the pipe be insatlled after the bottom so that it can go through the bottom sheet and be faired off underneath? Would copper pipe be a better option?

Thanks in advance for your answers.

One thing I've discovered is how much work there actually is in making 
the bulkheads. They're not much to look at, but I was surprised just how long it took to get all the cleats, deck beams, floors etc fitted, or maybe it's just I'm a slow worker.....
I even discoverd that i had to put a bevel on the two forward Starboard bin cleats. 

This weekend I've got the transom baffle cleat to fit and then that's the bulkheads all done and I'll get to work on the stem (and the vent trunk)

Pete

http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/