From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Vent Trunk Query
Date: Sun, 03 Jun 2007 08:17:57 -0000


Pete,

The order is best to build the vent trunk before assembling the dry fit, but leave the starboard side off.  I have not yet fixed that side; indeed, I intend to screw it in place with a sealant, so that I can remove it any time to get at the 'innards'.  To this end I added a permanent piece of wood to the top of the box on the starboard side for this purpose and it also strenthens the side of the box where the mast is only a fraction from it.  The deck, frame #2 would give it ample strength, but I prefer what I have done.  I believe Al also added this extra piece of wood.

Apart from the above, my vent tank for Faith is exactly according to plan within 1 or 2 millimeters - as accurate as I could make it.

The photos on my Paradox web site should help to make it pretty clear.  Here they are again.

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/construction/step.jpg
Attachment to the frame #2.

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/construction/no2.jpg
Shows how the base is made.

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/build/floor.jpg
This is a general view.

http://www.smallsailboats.co.uk/paradox/construction/trunk.jpg
Checking the mast fit. (Easier to do at this stage.)

I can't remember exactly where all the bits and pieces came from, but the only difficulty I had was a small piece missing from the rudder which I pinched from somewhere else.  I even had enough ply to make a large table and an anchor holder.  I used extra ply for making the laminated frames - that was stuff left over from previous projects.

For things like the rudder and stock, I cut out cardboard templates so that I could make sure there was sufficient space for everything to fit.  They do fit, because mine did.

I used the PVC pipe - simply rough it up with 40 grit sandpaper; cover both it and the drilled hole with epoxy, and a little filler powder.

Drilling the hole needs a very powerful electric drill and a bit extension.  Take your time.  Let the drill cool down now and again.

I installed the pipe after the bottom was fitted.

Keep at it.
Best wishes,
Bill.

PS 'Faith' is now on her launching trailer ready for fitting the rudder and trying out her sail.

Thanks again for the info Bill. I've studied the photos and the plans and everything is coming together in my mind. I'm still a bit uncertain as to how the trunk top connects to bulkhead 2 at deck level. I expect its just butted and glued.
That's right, but remember the top of the box is pretty thick. (From memory, about 1")  I made mine with several pieces of wood laminated together to form the curve to be in line with the top of frame 2.  This meant there was no need to do any shaping after it was made.
 I think I'll install a small cleat curved to the deck crown and glue onto that.
If you do this it will make it more difficult for drilling out the fairlead for the roller reefing line and the tack downhaul.

I've been dripping sweat over my stem for most of the day, which is shaping up nicely. Hope to have it finished tomorrow.

Great news about "Faith". We've had a fantastic couple of days, weather wise, here. I'm sure your Copper antifouling is curing nicely. The weather according to Metcheck (http://www.metcheck.com)is looking fine next week except Thursday and Friday, with more fine weather by Saturday again. I'm looking forward to seeing photo's of "Faith" underway.

Pete

http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/