From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 15 Jun 2007 21:03:33 -0000
Subject: Re: [SPAM] Photos of 'Faith' afloat


Hi Glen,

You'll appreciate I had `Faith' on the water for two days to test her 
handling characteristics.  Day 1 brought calm spells and light winds 
which meant the water was smooth and the boat performed flawlessly.  
I tried the yuloh but I had not mastered the technique which is 
different to sculling punt.  Only the next day did I work out how to 
operate the yuloh with a measure of success.  I found that making a 
figure of eight with the hands as one does for sculling did not work, 
but by moving the shaft horizontally and twisting it at the end of 
each stroke power was generated with the yuloh.  With practice I feel 
sure I'll do better.

The real sailing test came on Day 2 when the wind was between Force 3 
and 4 with gusts to 5.  I soon learnt how to reef and what sail area 
was best.  I was surprised when the boat did not successfully tack 
for the first time.  She was changing from starboard tack to port 
tack when she came to a halt in stays between breaking waves about 
the same distance apart as `Faith' was length.  She drifted back and 
I tried reversing the rudder, but she fell off to the starboard tack 
again; fortunately I had enough sea room to wear ship and only by 
freeing the sheet would she do it.  I deliberately practised tacking 
from starboard to port tack until I mastered the technique by freeing 
the mainsheet to allow the sail to feather, so as not to weathercock 
the boat.  This is a useful technique which is also used when sailing 
a junk rigged boat.

Paradox cannot spin around on a sixpence, but needs to be sailed in a 
gentle curve so as to maintain her way.  She's a great boat and I 
know there's a lot more for me to learn about handling her to get the 
best from her.  I love her stability.  I deliberately kept her over-
canvassed to see how far I could make her heel.  In the force 5 gusts 
she heeled to 30 degrees with no anxiety on my part that she might 
capsize.

Without the constraints of a narrow river, sailing her on the open 
sea should be a real joy.

Sailing `Faith' with the hatch closed makes oilskins obsolete.  I 
took mine, but when drizzle set in on Day 1 I simply closed myself 
in.  I felt perfectly secure and not at all claustrophobic.  The 
large window in the hatch allows me to have a very good view of the 
sail.

I love everything about the layout which works well in practice.  
Most of my food is stored in plastic boxes under the floors which 
in `Faith' are not hinged so that they can be easily lifted and moved 
forward to gain access to whatever is under them.  This can be done 
without much effort when sitting on the transverse seat.  Everything 
is to hand; for example, I can make a quick cuppa without moving from 
the seat; I simply fill the kettle with water from the pump; light 
the stove with a gas taper; place a teabag in the cup which is on its 
gimbal; pour the hot water into the cup; reach for the milk carton 
and add milk.  The whole operation takes approximately 3 minutes.

The table which is stored forward of bulkhead 3 on the port side can 
be set up either forward of bulkhead 3 or directly in front of the 
crew.  I actually prefer laying the chart on the floor rather than 
putting it on the table.  The Bosun compass does not intrude on the 
internal space and it can be observed from anywhere within the cabin.

I judged the two days of sailing as being very successful.  When I 
was ashore, I was asked many questions by curious spectators about 
the little boat.  She caused quite a stir at Burnham.

Bill.