From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
Date: Thu, 28 Jun 2007 07:56:03 -0000
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Hello, beginner logistics question and rowing thoughts

Hi,

I have had the plans for a few years and I am finally thinking 
seriously about taking the plunge. I have built a "lap stitch" round 
bottom dinghy and a flat bottom canoe (pirogue) from scratch and 
outfitted both for sailing. I enjoyed the building and I enjoy 
sailing but my boats are not up to the task of sailing where I would 
like, which is on larger lakes and down in the ICW (I am in 
Raleigh,NC). 

To work on the boat, I will have a bay in the garage, but I will move 
it in and out (keeping it in for a couple of days as required for 
certain operations) and the garage can be heated in the winter (I 
insulated it, so a space heater isn't as bad an option as it might 
sound). When I move it out, I have a covered area to store it in that 
is roughly 14'L x 5'W x 4'H. I plan to make a dolly for that. I think 
it will be tight, but that it will fit. Correct? The dolly may end up 
doing double duty; after completion I might use it to load the boat 
onto a tiltaway uitlity trailer for transport. 

I am curious if there is any way the Paradox can be rowed. I don't 
care if it isn't optimal. I have a lot of rowing experience and I 
enjoy rowing. One thought is to use forward strokes, alternatig like 
you are hitting a punching bag. I used to do that on rivers sometimes 
to cross flatwater stretches (I rowed rafts professionally for a 
while). Imagine a barstool on the floor of Paradox and extension arms 
that held oar pins about a foot off each side. I don't think that's 
how to do it, but that might give you the idea.

-Andy

I wondered about the possibility of rowing my Paradox while standing 
and facing forwards, but the cabin top comes in the way and extending 
oar locks would need on either side of the boat. Oars about the same 
length as the yuloh would be needed.

With practice the yuloh can be used to effect when it is calm. I 
have found that I can use my yuloh as a paddle, but not for long, as 
it requires the expenditure of a lot of energy.

Bill.