From: "openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 03 Jul 2007 23:10:18 +0100
Subject: Re: Hull assembly process

It doesn't really matter if you do a bit at a time or all at once. I 
think I probably did the gluing in one go, but there was a lot of 
preparation before that.

When I started assembling Little Jim I discovered that the pilot 
holes that I had to drill for the ring nails were a nice push fit for 
a some wire nails that I happened to have. During the trial assembly, 
once I had a bulkhead in the right place, I drilled a couple of holes 
each side and pushed a nail into each. This meant that I could 
reassemble the components in exactly the same same place. It also 
meant that I could now drill all the other ring nail holes before 
mixing the glue.

Before final assembly start the ring nails into all the holes in the 
side panel, except the ones for the wire nails.

On assembly, slap on the glue to bulkhead 3, position using the wire 
nails, bang in the ring nails (finishing with those in the wire nail 
holes) and move on to bulkhead 2. Work out from the centre finishing 
with the stem. It doesn't matter if the earlier joints have gone off 
or not as they are nailed up and can't move anyway.

When fitting the stem run a line from the centre of the transom 
across the centre of each bulkhead and make sure that it lines up 
with the centre of the stem (otherwise the boat ends up banana 
shaped)

The advantage of using the wire nails as tooling pins is that you can 
assemble without glue and the parts stay where you want them, and you 
can reassemble later with the parts in exactly the same place. I used 
this technique at every stage if the construction


On 3 Jul 2007 at 21:23, randoneur wrote:

I'm looking for hints and possible pitfalls when it comes to gluing 
up the hull.
I'm making progress with my trial assembly, and the  bevels are 
slowly being sorted out so the cleats lie nice and tight to the side 
panels.
(see http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/buildingblog.htm)

It has got me thinking about how I'm going to glue all this together.

Do you glue it all up in one sitting, or do you do it in stages; 
perhaps buklheads 3 nad 4, then when set, 1 and transom and finally 
the stem. However doing this I can't see how you would ensure 
everything was true and symetrical. I don't have any great desire to 
have a twisted boat!

To glue it all up together seems like a massive undertaking. Mixing 
epoxy, clamping frames, drilling pilot holes, squaring everything up, 
nailing.... it all seems like an awful lot of work and the first 
joints will have started to set long before the last one is even 
started!

Am I worrying unnecessarily or will it all fall into place when I 
start?

Hints and tips from past experience gratefully received.

Pete

http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>