From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 05 Jul 2007 07:24:14 -0000
Subject: Re: Hull assembly process

A big thanks to Bill and Al.
It all sounds so simple!

I'm already using nails as locators, and have been throughout, and i've also got temporary blocks screwed to the side panels  at each bulkhead station.

As you both said, make sure everything is true during the dry fit and it should just be a question of reassembly using the glue.

I won't be in a position to do this this weekend but maybe next week is a possibility. I still need to do some work on the cleat bevels, I haven't touched the transom yet, although the cleats as cut are almost correct. I then need to coat all the bulkheads and inside side panels with epoxy before I do the wet build.

It's just as easy to coat the inside after the wet assembly, providing the deck has not been fitted. That also means there is a good surface for the epoxy joints be the side panels and the bulkheads/frames. There's also a good bonding surface for the chine logs and sheer strakes.

Will you be lining the inside with foam? I preferred not to do this because it leaves more space for storing things in the side lockers, and as I don't expect to be sailing in very cold conditions the issue of condensation does not arise. From the reserve buoyancy viewpoint, Paradox is so strongly consructed and so well designed to keep the water out, I doubt the test of being fully flooded will come about. I can only image extreme conditions such as was found in the Fastent Race would likely cause Paradox to have that much water inside - even then, the hatch would need to fail, or the cabin top be damaged.

There's also the small feature called the vent trunk. I've built the top for this but have made no further progress with the side panels or mast step. I believe it's probably best to get this built and fitted before the wet assmebly stage, so that might mean another week or two passing before final assembly. I've learnt that you can put a lot of time into this boat and see very few results!

You're absolutely right about spending time on building Paradox. She's no 'instant' boat. Another good reason for building the vent box and mast together is to ensure a good fit before assembling at the wet stage.

Thanks again.

Pete

PS I hope the weather improves soon so you both manage to get off on that West country cruise.
There is a glimmer of hope for our West Country venture because the Azores high pressure system is gradually advancing northwards to reduce the strength of the winds and hopefully to bring sunshine.
The month of June has been the wettest since records began.
Cheers,
Bill.