From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@alltel.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 18 Jul 2007 10:23:47 -0400
Subject: Vane Gear

Hello Group

I took Zoe out Sunday 8 July to try out the wind vane again and once out 
into clear air and deeper water I deployed the vane gear oar and began 
testing. I naturally ran into minor problems like the oar tiller wanting 
to jump out of the vane out-put crank, the wind blowing the vane blade 
out of alignment when it went farther than the out-put crank would allow 
and some missing screws which had vibrated lose on the trip down. After 
sorting out and correcting all the problems if only temporarily, the 
gear began to work well and hold a course better than I had hoped for. I 
was truly amazed at how little the vane moved and how quickly it corrected 
the course. Watching the end of the tiller I could see that it 
was only moving about an inch at the max and generally about a half inch 
or less. Its greatest movements occurring in the gusts when Zoe heeled 
over or when I moved about in the boat.

I broke out my little wind gage and measured 16mph gusting to 19mph. On 
the VHF weather channel they were forecasting 16kts gusting to 25 so 
things did appear right.

I uncoupled the gear and tacked from starboard to port and took up a 
heading of due south. That turned out to be a close reach and Zoe pick 
up her skirts and charged off at 5.3kts according to the GPS. I got her 
helm tied down to hold us more or less on course and engaged the vane 
gear. After allowing a minute or so for everything to settle down I 
checked the compass and found our heading to be about a 165 degrees. 
Taking up the course setting lines, I began to experiment with 
correcting our course and sure enough with a small amount of fiddling 
around as I first over shot and then under shot I was able to get a 
pretty steady course of 180 degrees plus or minus a couple of degrees. 
The gear held a far steadier heading then I could have unless I stayed 
put in one spot.
Anyone who has ever tried a tiller tamer or any other device to hold 
your heading soon finds that, yes they work assuming you dont move. 
Therein lies the real value of an auto-pilot, it frees you to move 
around. No longer a hostage to the helm you are able to crawl around and 
dig into lockers, study the chart, fix dinner and such without having to 
constantly monitor the compass.
I must admit, as I sailed along south watching the wake streaming 
straight behind us, I was pretty proud of myself for putting this 
contraption together. Pulling out the camera, I shot a three minute mpeg 
movie to put on the web site. All too soon I had to uncouple everything 
and head in. My daughter was sitting with her mom while I was out 
testing and upon my arrival home she still had a two hour drive home 
herself. As excited as I was and longing to play with my new toy for the 
rest of the afternoon, I felt it wouldnt be fair.

So whats left to do? I need to install a wind blade stop to keep strong 
winds from blowing the blade out of alignment. A spring attached to the 
oar carrier and hooked over the oar tiller will solve another little 
problem. Installing larger engagement lines when they come in. Devising 
a way to adjust the friction on the wind blade carrier tube from the 
hatch. More testing to finalize the design and then put everything down 
on paper with instructions on how to assemble one.

I tried to upload the movie so I could link to it from here but after a 
couple of hours and only 16% upload I gave up. Dial up connections 
really suck! To make things worse the phone company has no idea when 
they will get faster service out here in the sticks of North Florida.

For those not familiar with this type of wind vane, a short introduction 
is in order. First the vane assembly is of the upside down variety. 
These are supposed to be affected by heel angle much less than the 
vertical models. The oar assembly is mounted on the rudder head and to 
engage the gear the oar is secured so that it cant swing when the oar 
is deflected. Since the oar cant swing out it imparts the load onto the 
head of the rudder and deflects it instead. Therefore, there are no 
tiller lines or other encumbrances to clutter up the helm. The controls 
consist of a down-haul line and an up-haul line to flip the oar blade in 
and out of the water, a course setting line, a friction adjuster and the 
two engagement lines which are set at the same time. There are pictures 
of the assembly in the Paradoxbuilders file section under Zoes Vane 
Gear. During the learning curve I referenced one website more than any 
other, it can be found here: 
http://www.mindspring.com/~waltmur/Self-Steering/advanced.htm While this 
particular vane gear was designed by me to fit the Paradox you can adapt 
and mix and match gear components to fit your particular needs once a 
working knowledge has been gained from all the info provided from the 
above site.

Smooth Sailing

Glen