From: Harrett Peter <peterharrett@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 21 Jul 2007 11:35:18 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: great paint for boats

Glen,

We are really on to something with this product. If there is such a thing as an alternative to paint this is it. 

Heres an example; weve tested TS 100 1 Part Epoxy Clear against Epianes Clear High-Gloss Varnish, Z-Spar Flagship Varnish, Interlux Perfection and Bristol Finish, and 1 Part Epoxy either equaled or out performed them all in every category. It is significant to note that Top Secret 1 Part Epoxy retails for less than half the price of Interlux Perfection and Bristol Finish! 

TS 100 1 Part Epoxy is a low build, high performance marine coating available in 200 colors plus clear. It is 85-90% gloss which is considerably higher than competing products so appearance is better. It covers black over white at only 1 mil which is unheard of. Ive seen people get well over 800 sq ft out of one gallon because it covers so well. 

It has the highest possible adhesion rating excellent flexibility which allows it to be used on almost any substrate and in any application possibility. It can be applied direct to wood, steel and copper, however, fiberglass, aluminum, plastics, vinyl and glazed tile need our TS 664 Etching Primer. It is a premium waterproof barrier coating that takes impacts up to 500 PSI, heat up to 400 degrees, has exceptional UV resistance and wont chalk, crack or peel like typical epoxy. It is a silicone based epoxy so its high flexibility is what prevents it from cracking chalking, discoloring or fading like typical epoxy. It is also non toxic when dry which is a big selling point. 

It self levels like a dream! I would say that half our customers are rolling and tipping their boats and getting excellent results. The same goes with cars. There is a big buzz online on the car people that are rolling and tipping their cars. 

What makes Top Secret Coatings different is we are making government and military coatings available to the public which is something no other MIL SPEC coatings producer is doing. When you buy from us you are getting the very same products the U.S. and foreign governments, militaries and aerospace contractors buy. Prices are competitive because there are virtually no advertising dollars loaded in. See our online store on the web at www.topsecretcoatings.com  

Sincerely,

Peter Harrett,
The Wildcat Conservancy www.bobcatandlynx.com
WildLife Whole Prey Pet Foods www.wildlifepetfoods.com
TOP SECRET COATINGS www.topsecretcoatings.com