From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Plymouth to Exmouth
Date: Tue, 24 Jul 2007 19:06:40 -0000

Hi Pete,

I saw the news about the floods in your patch.  Too bad.  Al and I
had a fair amount of rain, but nothing like the deluge you've had.

When I update the web site at the end of the month there will be a
number of new photos.  Al sent me some really excellent ones,
including several video clips.

I was very impressed with the way Al used his yuloh and it was
perfectely adequate for the cruise.  He did not deploy the electric
outboard he keeps stowed in the forecastle.  I could not keep up with
him by paddling.  Today I modified the socket in the my yuloh so that
it can swivel fully from side to side, in adition to the vertical
plane.  I also increased the height of the ball, as per Al's.

The most lively part of the trip was sailing off Bolt Head and Bolt
Tail before going into Salcombe.  I suppose it was about a force 5
and there was a big swell.  Sometimes our boats were lost from sight
when they were both in troughs.  Waves bouded back from the cliffs
causing confused seas, but the boats behaved impeccably.  I was
mightily impressed with their buoyancy and ease of handling.  There
was never any anxiety on my part, and I'm sure the same went for Al.

I'm convinced Paradox would ride out a force 8 while lying a-hull.
It would be uncomfortable for the crew, but he would be safe.
Anything more than an 8, perhaps running downwind, while tracking
slightly off true downwind would be best.  Trailing a long warp could
be helpful.

Just take the building of "Johanna" bit by bit, and you'll end up
with a fine boat.

The only slight criticism I have of 'Faith' and probably all
Paradoxes is her slowness of tacking.  If the seas are piling up she
sometimes have difficulty in tacking from the starboard tack to the
port tack.  The answer when this happens is to reverse the rudder so
that she pays off on the port tack.  Releasing the sheet when head to
wind can also help, as does moving forward into the cabin and sitting
on the starboard hand side.  Whenever there's a smooth or smoothish
sea she always tacks.

Apart from that one small idiosyncrasy, Paradox is absolutely
brilliant - probably the best boat I've ever owned.

Cheers,
Bill.