To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk
Date: Sun, 05 Aug 2007 16:27:45 -0000
Subject: Re: Comparisions


Hi Paul,

A few statistics will put things into perspective:

At 14' LOA the Bermudan sloop `Harriott' was 2" longer than Paradox and she had a displacement of 650lbs with 56lbs of removable lead ballast plus an iron centreplate weighing 80lbs; her beam was about 5.5' and her basic sail area was 96 sq ft capable of being increased to 105sq ft by setting the Genoa.  Being dependent upon her centreboard for going to windward she could not sail efficiently on the wind in less than 4' of water because her draught with the board down was 3.4'.  On the other hand Paradox although a little shorter and with considerably less beam (just over 4') and only 9" draught sails to windward in 2' of water when heeling at around 14 degrees; she has a much heavier displacement of 1410lbs, 397lbs being lead ballast and 154lbs being water ballast; with only 100 sq ft of sail she is slower than a Roamer dinghy.  Both craft will self-right, but my Paradox, `Faith' has enormous stability and with less sail area is much the more forgiving.

The advantages of Paradox are:  The crew is not exposed to the elements; there's no need to erect a tent when the crew wishes to retire for the night; indeed, even if it rains or the waves start coming on the deck the crew of Paradox simply closes the hatch and sails the boat from within; one does not have to worry about the centreplate getting stuck, neither is there any concern about the boat being capsized in anything but the severest weather  even then she will self-right, as indeed should Roamer, but I know which boat I would prefer to be in under such horrendous conditions; there's much more usable storage space aboard Paradox.

I can think of 4 advantages of Roamer over Paradox, i.e., she sails closer to windward; she's faster under light weather conditions; more than one person can sail her at the same time and mounting an outboard engine without interfering with the mainsheet.

I see Paradox as being a single-handed miniature yacht rather than a dinghy.

Roamer does not sit level when dried out, whereas Paradox does.  Both boats are similar to launch and recover from the water and both can be trailed behind an ordinary family car.  Building a Paradox will take longer than a Roamer, both costing around the same in materials, sails, rigging etc.

Having experienced both craft my preference for the type of sailing I enjoy is for a Paradox despite her lack of an engine and her slowness to tack, especially in short choppy waves.  To my way of thinking Paradox is more a boat for open water, such as when coastal cruising, rather than narrow restricted rivers or small lakes.  I found learning to handle the yuloh took a while, and in strong winds you might as well dismiss using it at all.  The secret is to have the rudder up and balance the strokes of the yuloh with what direction can be achieved by the part of the rudder that remains in the water.

If you want to make a choice between the two boats you'll need to decide if you want a fellow crew member, where you prefer sailing and if you `need' an engine.

Bill.