From: "robertbiegler" <Robert.Biegler@svt.ntnu.no>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Reefing and sailing
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2007 11:59:24 -0000

I bought Derek's old Paradox, and got her to Norway a while ago. I have now fixed the ballast to my satisfaction, built a yuloh with a bigger blade, built another when the first one was stolen, and tried to reduce friction in the reefing.

That brings me to my first question. When I first put up the sail and tested reefing, it didn't work. I had to roll up the sail by hand. I then added two blocks, one where the reefing line is redirected aft after it comes off the drum, and one above the hole where the line goes through the deck and down. That has reduced friction to the point where I can reef. My experience still is that reefing is much more of a bother than with a junk rig. I may need a larger diameter drum on the boom. Or does it have something to do with the topping lift? At the moment, I just have a fixed line, rather than one I can adjust while under way. Do I need to lift up the boom to get better reefing? Any other comments?  

Derek got the sail design with a higher peak. Somewhere Matt wrote this version should have better performance, and the cost of leaving a little triangle still exposed when you have the sail rolled up as far as it goes. I read long ago that a good idea for roller reefing is to make the boom a bit thicker at the aft end, so that the end rises when you roll up the sail. If I get the ratio right, there should be no triangle left over. It is also supposed to be good if the boom is a little fatter in the middle, to roll up the extra cloth put there by the broadseaming which gives the sail camber. Has anyone tried this on a Paradox?

I only took the boat out twice so far, for quick system checks. Both times I had the impression of lee helm, and when I compensated with the rudder, of course I had a lot of leeway. The second time I had a bit more wind (5 - 8 kn) and sat to lee. The combined effect of immersing the chine runner more deeply and getting the centre of effort out to lee got rid of the lee helm and reduced leeway from a roughly estimated 25 degrees to about 10 degrees. At the moment, I carry just 140 kg ballast, and no cruising stores yet. I know that Paradox is designed to sail well with a full cruising load. Will the deeper immersion get rid of the lee helm and make her point better? After all, I need to point at least well enough to keep off the rocks. In Trondheimsfjord there are very few places where you can ground a boat and expect it to survive in any seaway.

Finally, where do others store an anchor? The boat is small enough that I expect her to be fairly sensitive to weight in a bow roller. The most convenient place I can think of is in a box behind the seat. but that means taking a dripping wet anchor into the cabin. Does anyone else have any better ideas?

Regards

Robert Biegler