From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2007 17:31:07 -0000
Subject: Re: Reefing and sailing

With practice you'll get better at reefing.  Hauling the sail up is 
not a problem as the reefing line runs freely; when the yard is at 
the position you want, simply haul in the reefing line.  Before 
hauling up the sail I hoist the boom on the topping lift and once the 
sail has been adjusted I slacken the topping lift so as not to 
interfere with the set of the sail.  I've not perfected the Matt 
Layden technique of dropping the halyard while rolling in the reefing 
line at the same time.  By using gloves I can get a better grip on 
the ropes; reefing for me is done by lowering the halyard a small 
amount then pulling in on the reefing line; this process is repeated 
until the required sail area is achieved.

I've owned three junk rigged yachts and as you say, reefing them is 
easier, because it's simply a matter of letting go the halyard to 
allow the sail to drop into the lazyjack; on the other hand I really 
appreciate being able to reef `Faith' my Paradox when on any point of 
sailing, but the easiest time to reef is when on the starboard tack 
so that all the lines are free to run.  It is also easier to hoist 
the sail with the wind from the starboard hand.  Friction on the 
halyard and reefing line is a factor and if it can be reduced the 
actions of hoisting the sail and reefing are more easily done.

The topping lift helps considerably except when the peak end of the 
yard gets caught in it if one is not vigilant.

Al uses a wedge shaped piece of closed cell foam at the aft end 
of `Little Jim's' boom to take up the slack when the sail is rolled 
for stowage and for improving the set of the sail when reefed.

If Derek made the reefing drum according to the spar plan I don't 
think it will need enlarging.

Regarding lee helm; I found that `Faith' will sail to windward with 
just a very tiny amount of weather helm; this also applies to running 
and reaching.  I think the secret is not to sheet in the sail too 
tightly, especially when on the wind; treat the sail as if it were a 
junk sail where the angle of incidence of the wind to sail is barely 
more than 2 to 3 degrees.

If you have lee helm, no doubt the boat needs re-trimming with the 
ballast to put the stem lower in the water.  If she's trimmed 
correctly there will be less leeway and you are right in believing 
Paradox performs better when well ballasted.  Matt drew the lines 
absolutely right so that the waterline should just exit at the 
transom without causing drag.  The stem should have about 3 to 4 
inches below the water.

Paradox should have 180 kilos/397 lbs of lead ballast and 70 
kilos/154 lbs of water ballast =96 that's if she's built to plan.

I keep my bower anchor fitted to a special holder up forward in the 
cabin on the starboard side which just allows room for me to get into 
the forecastle by crawling.  This anchor would only be used when at 
an anchorage in severe conditions.  My kedge anchor is lashed to the 
foredeck when underway.  By keeping the anchors forward of the middle 
of the boat the correct trim is maintained.  Chain and warp are 
permanently attached to the kedge anchor with the chain coiled around 
the anchor while the warp is kept coiled by a line around the mast.  
So far I've not found it a difficult operation to set and retrieve 
the anchor from the foredeck.  Sometimes I retrieve or set the anchor 
when the sail is furled, but on other occasions when the sail is up =96 
it depends on the circumstances.  I have also stored my kedge anchor 
with its chain and warp in a large bucket wedged between the vent box 
and the starboard shelf.

I'd like to amend the details of `Enuf' on the builders/owners page at http://www.paradox-uk.co.uk
Please let me know if you want your details, including your email 
address to remain on the database.  You can contact me by email: barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk 

Bill.