From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Scaling and modifying paradox.
Date: Tue, 28 Aug 2007 11:29:12 -0700 (PDT)

I'm working the same issue right now. A 20 percent increase is easy and adding 4 or 5 feet in length can be done but before I went that far I would do some structual comparisons before starting using the stock Paradox as a starting point.

My approach will be a little different, my wife and I are happy with the general size of the stock Paradox, width and height, So, we will leave those dimensions alone and just extend the length of the Paradox to approximately 18 feet by adding 5 feet to the boat. I'll do this proportionally by increasing the bulkhead spacing by about 130 percent or 1.3.

I've decided to go this way in order to keep the plywwod templates close to the same as stock, i.e. very few mods to forms. I'm adding a porta-potti to the aft cabin area and a hammock to the sleeping/lounging area. By doing it this way the sailor will have access to all of the essentials while under way, such as stove and supplies and bathroom, and the lounger will have a very comfortable place to sleep, read and in general get ready for their turn at the helm.

I intend on changing nothing else on my version of the Paradox. I think that the added length will make for a better ride and give everyone more room for living a week or two at a time and who knows maybe longer if my wife can tolerate the water for extended periods.

The plans include some very nice shetches of larger versions of the Paradox and I will be relying on them for my mods, including a small platform on one side the transom for getting in and out of water and an oversized trolling motor on the other side for some limited electric cruising.

After considering all of the work required to increase the width and height of the Paradox I've decided that this approach will build faster and in general give me the extra room I'm looking for without all the additional work that the other mods would require.

Denny ...

--------------------

From: howgegoboat <howgegoboat@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Thoughts on modifying Paradox
Date: unknown

Hi 

Just thinking on making paradox / small cruiser for my needs, coastal 
sailing with son, 
Was thinking of 5ft beam to give extra space in interior, 
Length increase to 15ft6, to use most of materials 
hull depth would preseribed by the sides sprung out to 5ft, but 6in 
would be about right. 
Water ballast in form of 4 x 5 gal jugs. 
Cabin taken to sides of boat, 
front hatch for anchouring,
4ft bow section, 
6ft long cabin, 
4ft aft deck,

ext ply and paint and cotton finish, 

All of these would be within the spirit of paradox, but perhaps a 
little less paradox and more useable?!
what do people think? 

yours james

 --------------------

Note: Headers have been kept in the order: From, To, Subject, Date. Additionally, unnecessary message content and formatting has been removed.