From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 29 Aug 2007 09:18:18 +0100
Subject: Re: Bottom Fitting questions.

On 28 Aug 2007 at 21:44, randoneur wrote:

some more queries for the builders.
I've now got my chine logs firmly installed (what a task that was!), 

That is by far the most difficult bit.

and next on my agenda is scarfing my bottom panels together. That 
will leave me in a position to fit the bottom. Now, to do this, I 
think I want to be able to get in under the boat for the following 
reasons:
1. to mark the position of bulkheads and floor members so i can 
precoat the ply surface,
2. To check I have enough pressure applied to all joints to get some 
squeeze out of epoxy,
3. to clean up the squeeze out from point 2 before it dries solid all 
over my nice bulkheads and side panels, where it's guaranteed to end 
up!  

So do you elevate the boat on tressels high enough to crawl under 
during this process? At the moment I only have about a half a meter 
gap which would be a tight squeeze for me to climb into! Is it worth 
the hassle of elevating the hull?.

Yes, you want to be able to get under. I think I used a car 
inspection trolley to slide under.
 
Next-
Is it easier to fit chine runners whilst the hull is upside down? I 
would have thought it easier to shape the runners with the hull right 
side up, but of course this means a double turn over to glass the 
bottom again.

I can't actually remember what I did, but I think I must have done it 
the right way up as I found I couldn't hold the bend in both planes 
so ended up cutting the strips into 1 foot lengths and assembling the 
chine runners like a jigsaw puzzle (lots of epoxy!). 
 
Finally- 
I intend to use biax on the bottom. Do you think 1 layer of 600gm 
would be adequate or would I be better of using two (or 3)?

I'm not sure it matters much. The bottom is so strong anyway. After 4 
years of landing on flinty beaches round Poole and the Solent I have 
not found sufficient damage to be worth patching. The bit that is 
showing the worst damage (paint badly scratched) is around bulkhead 3 
(as would be expected). A compromise may be to add more layers over 
this bit.


Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>