From: barnacleid <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Scaling and modifying paradox.
Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2007 21:08:44 -0000

Hi 

Thanks for all the replies, 

I was thinking of 100kgs of ballast, but perhaps a bit more would be helpful? depending on the coditions, 

I was thinking that containers would make the build quicker and less epoxy dependant, 

I would not be keen on making paradox any longer than 16ft, as the stability would be be reduced by the larger rig needed to drive the longer hull, 

I dont think that the extra length of a longer paradox would make lanching any more dificult it would only be the same size as a wayfarer / drascombe / west wright potter sort of boat. 

I have a number - 8 I think 3/4 ply panels on my garage roof which is coming down!!!!! which  got me thinking if the wife was away at her mums for a few days the basic paradox hull would not be out of reach! 

What thickness are the sides? 

I was thinking that if you got away with 1/4 it would be lighter up top, 

=A340 bottom 
=A330 sides and top
=A330 for lumber etc. cls divided into two for chines, 

I think =A3100 pounds / $200 would cover the basic materials excepting epoxy and the glazing, what thinkness is it by the way?

A mainsail of ebay for a 16ft dinghy would be great cut down for the lug sail and a storm jib.  

I ought to get the plans but that would give the game away! 

I am a perpetual dreamer. 

I have several thoughts in mind, 

By the way has anyone seem the little explorer boat that is sailing around the UK at moment what do people think of that? 

The guy doing it is Mukti Mitchell; he's a member of the DCA.  Here's his web site:

http://www.lowcarbonlifestyle.org/

Paradox is not a racing boat, but I feel sure she could accomplish a round Britain attempt with a competent skipper.  I know kayaks have successfully circumnavigated Britain, but I've never heard of a dinghy that has been successful at it.  Could Paradox be considered a dinghy, or is she a micro-yacht?

Bill. 

As you can see I need to get out more!

Yours james