From: Jim Baltaxe <jim.baltaxe@vuw.ac.nz>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 12:43:15 +1200
Subject: Re: Chine runners

Hi John
 
Yup. That's what I was thinking of when I suggested that the bottom
sheet be extended out beyond the sides, perhaps taking a fair curve,
which would form the bottom surface of the chine runners. The foam could
then be laminated straight to the top of that "shelf" as Jack described
it.
 
Enjoy


From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
To: 
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 12:38 p.m.
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

I think that because the chine rails stick out the sides of the bottom,
they are vulnerable when the vessel takes ground. I'd plan to make them
moderately substantial.
 
JG


From: Jim Baltaxe <jim.baltaxe@vuw.ac.nz>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, Sep 5, 2007 at 5:30 PM
Subject: RE: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

Hi People
 
Another possibility since the chine runners aren't structural and will
be sheathed in glass cloth anyway, would be to use closed cell foam -
the blue stuff or PVC - which could be very easily bent to fit even
after fairing into shape. Anyone worried about strength could cut the
bottom slightly wide to provide a bottom surface for the chines and run
a fair curve the length of the hull.
 
Enjoy


From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
To: 
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 1:56 a.m.
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

Hi,

heres how I did my chine runners,

bottom was put on, left a curved shelf to start the chine runners, i 
cut out cardboard patterns of the shape at different spots, so all I had

to do was place the pattern on the boat to see if Ive got enough to 
shape the parts.... then I made small blocks 3 inches each by one inch 
or more if needed, and kinda like building a wall i glued them in place 
to make up the profile needed, then shaped them with a hand plane and 
sanded the rest , heres the reasoning behind my plan, if they get 
scuffed moisture will only enter one block, it is incapsulated in epoxy 
and wont run down the length of the chine runners and ruin the whole 
thing, they are not really structual, to having wood grain the whole 
length isnt really that important, shape is the important thing, after 
they were shaped they were sheathed in 2 oz glass, ive had the boat in 
use for a few years and no problems at all, and It was very easy to 
accomplish.

just another way to do it

Jack


From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
To: 
Date: Tue, Sep 4, 2007 at 10:09 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

That sounds like a good plan. It will certainly be much easier to
clamp them in position and if you steam them first it will make it
even easier.

As you know, I found it impossible to bend the full length pieces
into position and ended up cutting them into ~1ft lengths. This
appears to have worked ok, but full length strips would be more
elegant, not to mention needing less epoxy.

Go for it!

Pete (still beavering away trying to cut the scarfs for the bottom
panel by hand)

http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuilder/