From: Jack Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 06 Sep 2007 01:55:23 -0400
Subject: Re: Chine runners

I have to disagree,

Having built and sailed, and repeatedly run her onto the beach, along dock pilings, sitting in surf for some time , because the bottom is a much heavier weave of cloth, some use roving roving as per plan, I used 12 oz biax on mine, I have not damaged, usual scuffs are repainted as usual, and if you look at the profile, the bottom upswept part of the chine runners are glassed heavy weave. A prudent Captain will not put his boat in peril if he can help it. If you were to strike something that would hit it hard enough to break the chine runner, you would also risk the chance of piericing the hull sides that are only 1/2 " plywood, to each is own anyway. I know many are daunted by just how to approach "the chine runners"  also to actually strike the part of the chinerunners that have lighter weave healed over would be quite a feat, and at that point i would be more worried that im going to roll over after striking something that hard.

Jack

From: Jim Baltaxe <jim.baltaxe@vuw.ac.nz>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wednesday, September 5, 2007 5:30:00 PM
Subject: RE: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

Hi People

Another possibility since the chine runners aren't structural and will be sheathed in glass cloth anyway, would be to use closed cell foam - the blue stuff or PVC - which could be very easily bent to fit even after fairing into shape. Anyone worried about strength could cut the bottom slightly wide to provide a bottom surface for the chines and run a fair curve the length of the hull.

Enjoy

Jim Baltaxe
209 Derwent Street
Island Bay, Wellington
NEW ZEALAND
+64 (04) 938 6018 
        027 563 5018
They said, get a life. I looked on TradeMe but I couldn't find one.

From: Jack Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 6 September 2007 01:56 a.m.
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Chine runners

Hi,

heres how I did my chine runners,

bottom was put on, left a curved shelf to start the chine runners, i
cut out cardboard patterns of the shape at different spots, so all I had
to do was place the pattern on the boat to see if Ive got enough to
shape the parts.... then I made small blocks 3 inches each by one inch
or more if needed, and kinda like building a wall i glued them in place
to make up the profile needed, then shaped them with a hand plane and
sanded the rest , heres the reasoning behind my plan, if they get
scuffed moisture will only enter one block, it is incapsulated in epoxy
and wont run down the length of the chine runners and ruin the whole
thing, they are not really structual, to having wood grain the whole
length isnt really that important, shape is the important thing, after
they were shaped they were sheathed in 2 oz glass, ive had the boat in
use for a few years and no problems at all, and It was very easy to
accomplish.

just another way to do it

Jack

From: John Gilbert <listmail6@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Chine runners
Date: Wed, 5 Sep 2007 19:11:30 -0400

I think that because the chine rails stick out the sides of the bottom, they are vulnerable when the vessel takes ground. I'd plan to make them moderately substantial.
  
JG