From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 17 Dec 2007 07:21:39 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Basic interior dimensions?

Well Jeff, as a recent Paradox plans owner all I can say is thanks! When the NOLI plans are available they will make a "most excellent!" new years gift, no matter when they are released next year.

Thanks ... Denny ...

From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Sun, 16 Dec 2007 04:11:20 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Basic interior dimensions?

Hi Jeff.

I have had a number of offline letters from members wanting to know if I will be making building plans available for NOLI.
As soon as NOLI is launched and performs to my liking I will make my drawings available free, as a download to members of this and other related groups.
BUT... To use these drawings members will need to buy from Dave and Mindy a copy of Matt's PARADOX drawings, that will cost you $40-$45 including shipping.
Which is extremely good value. Two boats for the price of one.
You will also need a basic CAD software package, some of which are available online free.

I look on the design of NOLI as a collaboration between Matt and myself, although I have not spoken to him, it always felt like he was looking over my shoulder and I feel it would be wrong for me to make any charge for my design.
There is not any information in boat design text books to produce a boat like PARADOX, and Matt has done a lot of research with models and prototypes over the years to bring his latest design with Sven to the drawing board(screen).
But the thing is that if one enjoys designing and building your own designs as a hobby, as I do, it becomes a chore to have to produce drawings for sale and have to explain to someone that has never built a boat on how to read the drawings let alone build it.
I like to work on the minimum of information. But I do have dimensional drawings of fitting and laying out the panels on to sheets of ply plus rig and general arrangements(basically the same as PARADOX).
By releasing my drawings as a modification to PARADOX and with help from other members of the groups, additional photo's in the files section and occasionally myself, the build should be relatively straight forward.
I must get part 2 of my tome underway.

Jeff UK

Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.