From: "Jeff Michals-Brown" <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2008 01:39:06 -0000
Subject: Re: There are a lot of dingos about

I think the truth lies somewhere in between.  On the one hand, I'm one of those hard-to-please prospective builders: I want the all-weather, shoal draft, self-righting, trailerable qualities of a Paradox, BUT I want to cruise two in it without increasing its displacement by too much.  I'm also too tall for the cabin as designed.  On the other hand, I am keenly aware of all the experimentation and real-world experience and tweaking that went into the Paradox design--experience I simply don't have.  So if I build, I will keep any mods small, make sure they don't change overall lines and are not structural.  And I will not be especially surprised if find I've goofed in some way.  In short: modify if you must, but be keep your own skills and knowledge in perspective.

From: Perry Phillips <perrywphillips@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2008 02:39:49 +0000
Subject: [pb] Re: There are a lot of dingos about

Al, (et. al...)

The article was interesting but I found it somewhat belittling to those who might have a "better idea."  Many fine yacht designers have provided sail plan, cabin layout, and propulsion options on the same basic boat plan.  Chuck Paine, L. Francis Herreshoff, and Bruce Bingham to name just a few.  I agree with you that someone without careful thinking can ruin a perfectly good boat.  On the other hand, not everyone follows the same philosophy where sailing is concerned, and I find that to be one of the great attraction to the pass time.  Matt has not remained idle in his pursuit of the perfect boat.  He took a basic concept (the Sharpie) and is still experimenting with it migrating to his new Enigma variation.  There are hundreds of variations on Bolger's designs that work perfectly fine, although they deviate from the orginal.  I personally believe that when we stop considering alternatives we fall into an almost cult following.  Is it possible that one can appreciate an idea and a design and still find ways to make the boat fit their personal taste and sailing approach?  I have no resentment for a person who chooses to follow the design to the letter.  I don't understand why the reverse is not true for those who choose to experiment.  The other Paradox Group has very strict rules requiring discussions must pertain to the "Paradox as designed."  I have followed this group for over a year because I have found it more accepting of modifications. It is interesting to read banter back and forth over alternate methodology.  Some ideas are appealing while others eventually are shown to be lacking.  I humbly and sincerely hope that spirit of thinking and experimentation does not go away.    

This is offered without argumentative intent... Simply hoping we can keep an open mind.

Best Regards,
Perry

--------------
Perry W. Phillips
Monroeville, Alabama

Paddling
Wilderness Systems Tarpon 100 SOT Kayak

Sailing
Bobber - Junk Rigged 1969 British C-Type West Wight Potter 

Be a better friend, newshound, and know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.