From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: There are a lot of dingos about
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2008 13:16:17 -0000

On 19 Jan 2008 at 16:18, Perry Phillips wrote:

Al, (et. al...)

The article was interesting but I found it somewhat belittling to those who might have a "better idea."  Many fine yacht designers have provided sail plan, cabin layout, and propulsion options on the same basic boat plan.  Chuck Paine, L. Francis Herreshoff, and Bruce Bingham to name just a few.  I agree with you that someone without careful thinking can ruin a perfectly good boat.  On the other hand, not everyone follows the same philosophy where sailing is concerned, and I find that to be one of the great attraction to the pass time.  Matt has not remained idle in his pursuit of the perfect boat.  He took a basic concept (the Sharpie) and is still experimenting with it migrating to his new Enigma variation.  There are hundreds of variations on Bolger's designs that work perfectly fine, although they deviate from the orginal.  I personally believe that when we stop considering alternatives we fall into an almost cult following.  Is it possible that one can appreciate an idea and a design and still find ways to make the boat fit their personal taste and sailing approach?  I have no resentment for a person who chooses to follow the design to the letter.  I don't understand why the reverse is not true for those who choose to experiment.  The other Paradox Group has very strict rules requiring discussions must pertain to the "Paradox as designed."  I have followed this group for over a year because I have found it more accepting of modifications. It is interesting to read banter back and forth over alternate methodology.  Some ideas are appealing while others eventually are shown to be lacking.  I humbly and sincerely hope that spirit of thinking and experimentation does not go away.  

I have no argument and I believe neither has the article's author, with informed modifications to a design. I approve, for instance, of Jeff's work on Noli. My grump is with those who decide to make changes without any real understanding of what is going on. I was very nearly one of these myself, so perhaps I am a bit evangelical about it. :-)

If you look back through past messages on this list you will find many where people are proposing changes even before they have seen the original plans. Some have even suggested ideas to perform functions which the original design already covers.

I suppose the saving grace is that few of these people ever actually get around to completing a build.

Talking of which, Jeff, is there a proposed launch date for Noli yet?

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>