From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Considering Dingos and Modifying Paradox
Date: Sun, 20 Jan 2008 18:28:37 -0000

Matt spent a long time developing and perfecting Paradox for `himself'. The boat works fine for a sailing man of his build and one who is lithe like him; she fits such a man or woman like a comfortable slipper. A taller, fatter or less agile person will feel like a bunion in an iron shoe, but for the Matt (physical) clone, even myself at age 73 she's the perfect boat; everything is where it should be. I could not improve her in any way. In that respect I agree with Al, but for a fatter, taller, less agile person, Paradox will not be a wise choice; he should be looking for a boat with the fine characteristics of Paradox, but with more habitable space within the cabin, and as Nels has suggested, the Michalak `Caroline' might fit the bill. Please don't waste your time by modifying Matt's marvellous design.

Bear in mind that he used his Paradox mainly for sailing upon open waters and for that reason he did not have an engine, or need one. When the need arose for an occasional visit to a marina or a narrow waterway he used a yuloh instead, and for those adept at using one they may do so easily if the wind is not too strong. Try doing it when the wind is stronger than force 2, they may have a problem, especially if trying to make into the wind. If I have any criticism of Paradox it is centred on the need for power propulsion in confined situations such as moorings and narrow waterways when there is a strong wind or little wind. Matt designed his boat so well for the use to which he wanted to put her that adding an engine becomes problematic.

David Beard and Derek Clark installed Honda 2.3 outboards on the port quarter, but snagging of the sheet on the engine can and does happen. Al has a Minn Kota electric outboard that he sets up on the port side, but it's not an instantaneous event. I am one of those who find using a yuloh an art I have not mastered, and because I need reliable power propulsion for tricky situations, I am struggling with a solution. A small electric or petroleum outboard would seem to be the answer if it can be mounted almost instantaneously after lowering the sail. Adding an engine brings other problems such as where is it to be stowed when not in use and if it's a petrol engine where is the fuel stored without being a hazard? I believe Derek kept petrol in small cans designed specifically for the purpose – they may have been stowed in the forecastle. An electric engine has the shortcomings of being dependent upon its battery and therefore it has only a limited range until the battery can be re-charged at a mains source. A solar panel would not likely cope, except over a very long period – certainly in the UK where cloud cover is frequent.

This brings me to what I said at the beginning, changing or adding to Paradox without detracting from her merits is only to be done at the peril of the perpetrator. If you need a boat with more space or one that must have an engine, consider another design that suits your requirements. I love my Paradox, but how I wish I could be adept at the yuloh!
 
Bill.
http://www.paradox-uk.co.uk