From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 21 Jan 2008 12:57:57 -0000
Subject: Re: Considering Dingos and Modifying Paradox

Bill,

I respect your admiration for the Paradox as designed, but please reconsider what makes a Paradox a Paradox. I have a 1969 C-Type West Wight Potter that I converted from a Gunter Rig to a Hasler/McLeod Junk Rig. It didn't cease to be a West Wight Potter in so doing. By changing the rig you violated the original design - even though the change may have brought about a more satisfactory arrangement for you. 

I had another one that I converted to a Lateen Rig. It too, was still a Potter. You ended up with a Potter hull rigged with a Lateen Rig.

Don Elliott argues that a Paradox is such because it is a complete sailing system. This is somewhat esoteric since any sailboat must be a sailing system of sorts. It is all a matter of degree. My interpretation of Don's view is that any change to Paradox will be for the detriment of the design, and therefore it should not be made, but I cannot vouch for this, because I am not Don.

I most sincerely appreciated your summary regarding the size of a sailor and the specifics that Matt had in mind when he designed the boat. Must someone of larger size miss out on all of the characteristics he might find useful and go to another design just to preserve the sanctity of the Paradox mystique? The point here is that, in my opinion born through experience, Paradox is not a suitable boat for a large person. I am not suggesting large people should not choose a Paradox to `preserve the sanctity of the Paradox mystique'.

Life is in most cases a matter of synthesis. I would agree that a boat is more often than not a combination of many parts resulting in a whole. I can think of an exception and that's a dugout canoe.

We find from the many available variables the things that work for us and employ them. It does not mean that there is a lack of appreciation for the original or the design. It simply means that other ideas have been incorporated to personalize the outcome. The owners of cars, boats, houses etc often personalize them. Thinking is not something that should ever be frozen in time. There will always be room for improvement on anything. I certainly aspire to personal self-improvement.

That's the way I am taking I - many thanks for your contribution.

Regards,

Perry Phillips,
Monroeville, Alabama