From: Perry Phillips <perrywphillips@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Mon, 21 Jan 2008 05:39:16 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Considering Dingos and Modifying Paradox

John,

International Marine had nothing to do with the C-Type Potters since they were built in England on the Isle of Wight. Since the American Potter Manufactureres changed the design several times over the years, perhaps they are not Potters accordingly. In fact the British maker offered a Junk Rig option in the '70's. Those boats were and are still Potters. International Marine offers a Lateen Rig option as well as several different hull strengths today. They are all still Potters. The rig that is on a boat design may vary from others of the same make. Matt redesigned the sail plan on the Paradox for at least one individual. That boat is still a Paradox but has a slightly different rig. If I were to sell my boat I would certainly mention the rig conversion because it makes the boat more unique. The Potter 19 has sold with a short rig or a tall rig, both are generally mentioned when selling the boats, but they are still Potters. None of the Potter owners would deny that any one of the many variations that have sold over the past 50 years are still Potters. Even Matt drew a low sloop rig option for the Paradox. David Beard built his cabin with a really interesting drop board at the rear of Whisper's cabin. Is his boat not a Paradox? 

All I'm trying to get across here is that open discussion of alternatives is a healthy approach to understanding any design. There will be some people who for one reason or another find the Paradox (as designed) lacking for their specific use. Slight modifications in sail plans or cabin design that do not destroy the balance of the boat should not be derided as making that boat somekind of orphan stepchild. I believe that Al's post was directed at neophytes that don't understand the ramifications of their changes. Poor design choices will certainly leave the boat as a bad example for an otherwise fine vessel. All of that, I agree with. I'm done!

Perry

Perry W. Phillips
Monroeville, Alabama

Paddling
Wilderness Systems Tarpon 100 SOT Kayak

Sailing
Bobber - Junk Rigged 1969 British C-Type West Wight Potter

Be a better friend, newshound, and know-it-all with Yahoo! Mobile. Try it now.