From: Perry Phillips <perrywphillips@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 21 Jan 2008 12:08:37 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Considering Dingos and Modifying Paradox

Ray,

Potters are peculiar little boats that are so versatile that many variations can easily be employed regarding sail rigs. Stanley Smith created a great little boat. Many people are unaware that Herb Stewart bought the rights to build Potters in America in the late `60's and within a very short time had made numerous changes in the construction method as well as the rig and rigging of the boats. This never seemed to bother Stanley Smith at all. The Potter 19 is an entirely different boat designed by Herb Stewart. The Potter originator had nothing whatsoever to do with its conception or design.

I am fascinated with the Paradox because it offers many things I have long looked for in a single handed boat design. There are also a number of other great ideas that I've come across over the years from other boat designs that I hope to synthesize into the boat I build. There is nothing wrong with people wanting to follow the plans to the finest detail... I just fear that purism will make people with an open mind regarding design changes, like myself, feel unwelcome on this group. I would much prefer genuine and peaceful discussion in terms of the pros and cons of suggested alternatives, rather than a curt and unsympathetic response. I don't feel that such has been the case until this discussion. To this I would add that it is always simpler for a designer to stick with one approach than entertaining others. The more units holding true to the original idea will certainly in the long run offer more support for that idea. I'm not so interested in proving the Paradox approach beyond it's current success. I'm interested in a boat that will do what I want it to, for my purposes. If it offends the owner's of "true Paradox's" for me to call my boat a Paradox, then I guess I could always call it a "Para-docks."

Perry

Perry W. Phillips
Monroeville, Alabama

Paddling
Wilderness Systems Tarpon 100 SOT Kayak

Sailing
Bobber - Junk Rigged 1969 British C-Type West Wight Potter

Looking for last minute shopping deals? Find them fast with Yahoo! Search.