From: "mbolduc" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Sorry I took so long to come aboard.
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 00:18:15 -0400

I'm sorry I took so long to come aboard. It appears you have a great forum going on, and I'm amazed by all the work that has been done so far in the file section. Though I have not personally built a Matt Layden sharpie, I am somewhat familiar with his designs since I have examined most of his boats personally, and I have talked to Matt about each boat at length. I also have spent considerable time rebuilding and improving LITTLE CRUISER as well as helping to restore SWAMP THING. Nonetheless, in regards to specific building details with Paradox, I must say that Don and Glen are the real experts.

After reading all the posts I have a few comments to make, though they may be a little late in arriving. To begin with, please use ring nails in the construction where they are specified. Matt considers them to be structural. Though epoxy is a wonderful adhesive and the glued parts may not come apart at the glue line; the joint could fail elsewhere, like at the next lamination. This was brought home to me when I was tearing up an old floor that was glued and nailed down. Wherever there were no ring nails I was able to tear up the plywood with my crow bar; but where there were nails, each nail had to be removed before the plywood could be torn up.

As for carrying anchors, they should be stowed down below since they are actually part of the boat's ballast. Matt carries his 11- pound Bruce in a bucket in the stern. When it is needed, he grabs the anchor out of the bucket, drops it off the stern and then he walks calmly to the bow with the anchor line, cleating it smartly off. When he wants to leave, he brings the line back to the stern, pulls the anchor up, puts it away in the bucket and sails off. For a storm anchor he has a large Fisherman style anchor stored under the floorboards. We tried carrying an 11- pound Bruce on our bow roller, but it actually altered the trim on Little Cruiser sufficiently that we only carry a light lunch hook up there now. Our main anchor at present is a 9- pound Danforth while our storm anchor is a 25- pound 3 piece Luke. Both are stored below the floorboards.

Finally, I am attaching some construction photographs of the original Paradox being built by the "master" himself. From what I can remember, it took Matt around 4 months of full time work to complete Paradox. This is remarkable since he did not have a car, and he had to haul all the materials to a remote building site in the woods on his bicycle trailer. You can see the little trailer to the right of Paradox on "para2" picture. Also, take note on picture "para4" how poor Paradox is being "launched," more like skidded or lowered, down a steep ravine to the Salmon River below. No wonder these little boats have to be built tough! Last of all is set of pictures of Little Cruiser during her rebuild. These may prove interesting to those who want to compare the two designs.