From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 21 Jan 2008 23:31:24 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.

On 21 Jan 2008 at 21:55, Pete wrote:

Whilst we're all talking about modifications :-), I have a question for the group. What is the general opinion of the built in water tanks. I'm now at a stage where I need to finalise what I am going to do in this area. As I can't find anything good to be said about drinking out of Epoxy lined tanks, I would be using the area only for water ballast, which seems like a waste of space. That and the reports of leakage puts me off further. I had thought about having a couple of flexible tanks made and that's still an option, however I have been collecting 2 Litre pop bottles and now have enough to keep me watered for well over a week and I have still space to spare in the water tank area. So I have a dilema; do I build the tanks as designed or just make the water tank  area another storage area for water bottles, (perhaps a small flexible tank) provisions and extra ballast?

One of the mods I originally considered was turning the tanks into general storage, then I decided I could always cut out hatch covers in the as-designed tank, so I built to plan. At the moment I have replaced the water with lead due to leakage, but by keeping a sealed (nearly) tank of air I have not compromised the floatation when flooded. If I could get watertight inspection hatches, preferably in metal, I would go back to water ballast.

I'd probably fit the forward sole as a single piece ( to create a rigid box section) and have a couple of lift off or hinging hatches to gain access. 

Also the rear sole plate specifies a continuous brass hinge. Bill, I'm sure the pictures on your site look like you have done something different, together with the samll removable sole plates each side of the water tanks? Am I right?

The brass hinges pick up a lot of grit. If mine eventually fail I would replace them with a webbing hinge

Whilst on the subject of modifications, I'm still really tempted to omit the rear of the cabin trunk and fabricate a drop in wash board instead (like Little cruiser and NOLI). I just think it would be nice to sit, on occassions, on the rear deck with my legs dangling into the cabin. I'd make it strong, lockable and as  watertight as possible so that I can still have most of the benefits (and safety) of the current design.

This should be ok if you are sure you will not compromise the structure of the cabin.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>