From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2008 20:13:36 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.

Whilst we're all talking about modifications :-), I have a question for the group. What is the general opinion of the built in water tanks. I'm now at a stage where I need to finalise what I am going to do in this area. As I can't find anything good to be said about drinking out of Epoxy lined tanks, I would be using the area only for water ballast, which seems like a waste of space. That and the reports of leakage puts me off further. I had thought about having a couple of flexible tanks made and that's still an option, however I have been collecting 2 Litre pop bottles and now have enough to keep me watered for well over a week and I have still space to spare in the water tank area.
 
So I have a dilema; do I build the tanks as designed or just make the water tank  area another storage area for water bottles, (perhaps a small flexible tank) provisions and extra ballast?
 
I'd probably fit the forward sole as a single piece ( to create a rigid box section) and have a couple of lift off or hinging hatches to gain access. 
 
Also the rear sole plate specifies a continuous brass hinge. Bill, I'm sure the pictures on your site look like you have done something different, together with the samll removable sole plates each side of the water tanks? Am I right?

I bolted the side bin sides to lengths of aluminium 'L' section which were screwed to fixed side shelves. This meant I could make ledges from wood along the bottom of the side bin sides for supporting the outer edges of two floors over the storage area.  Instead of using hinges as per plan I simply lift them out one at a time as needed.  I slide them forwards or sideways to gain access to the storage compartments.  The same could be done forwards to provide space for water bottles etc.
 
You are right about the small removable sole plates each side of the water tanks.  That gives me access to parts of the boat that otherwise would not be open to inspection.
 
The advantage of bolting the side bin sides to the 'L' section is that I can remove them for maintenance.  The plan drawings indicate they should be screwed in place, but I felt they would not be strong enough to withstand the sort of forces they may be subject should the boat be out in a gale.  I know what it's like.  You need to hang on to things to stop yourself being injured.
 
If I were doing it again I would not build in water tanks.  In my opinion the frame structure is strong enough without fixed soles over the water tank area.  I would be inclined to have loose floors that can be fixed with a clasp to keep them in place in the event of a total capsize.  I have such a system for the food storage compartments. 
 
Whilst on the subject of modifications, I'm still really tempted to omit the rear of the cabin trunk and fabricate a drop in wash board instead (like Little cruiser and NOLI). I just think it would be nice to sit, on occassions, on the rear deck with my legs dangling into the cabin. I'd make it strong, lockable and as  watertight as possible so that I can still have most of the benefits (and safety) of the current design.

I was orininally against this idea because of structural and waterproof integrity, but having sailed Paradox for a season, I agree it would be a comfortable place to sit when conditions are right.  Also, getting into and out of the boat would be easier.  I think the washboard sides should be vertical so that the washboard cannot come out of the side slots without a full vertical lift.  In the infamous Fastnet race many boats lost their washboards because of this fault.

Tell me I'm mad and just build as designed!

Pete
http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/

You must be at least a little mad to join the Paradox Club!

Bill.