From: "Jeff" <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.
Date: Thu, 24 Jan 2008 09:56:33 -0000

Hi Pete.

Bill is right about the vertical lift wash board but on NOLI I have as you will have seen gone for the vee type.
This was due to I preferred the look, but mainly because the only piece of ply I had was an offcut from a project I did about 15 years ago and I did not want to buy another sheet of ply.
As it was, the part only just fitted by adding two small bits to the top. I was going to throw that scrap away.

Jeff UK
 
Thanks Al and Bill.
I think between you, you have more or less convinced me to leave out the built in tanks! I'll probably just make lifting or hinged sole plates (I'll have a play around and see which i like best).

I won't make a final decision on the washboard opening until I'm ready for the decking. I have a design in mind which I'll probably "mock up" with some scrap ply just to test it's rigidity and strength. That's a good point Bill about the shape of the washboard. I had drawn up the tradional V shape but in retrospect I'll probably keep the sides parallel if I go down this route.

I've actually manged to get on with quite a few things over the last week or two as the weather is quite mild. I hopefully will have the side shelves fitted this weekend and most of the work on the side bins etc complete. I'm viewing different stove options so I can fit out the aft "galley" section.

I have only one other mod still on the drawing board. It's a very contentious one! Just in case I go down the road of putting an engine on the back, I'm considering building two sealed vented lockers on the aft quarters to hold a 5 litre fuel cans each. The only access is from a hatch on the deck. I've done some measurements and there's enough space to still allow full movement of the tiller and not interfere with the steering lines. In use this would put some extra unwanted weight aft (as would an engine) but trimming with balast fwd should bring her back on her lines. The weight will of course not be in the ideal place i'e' not low down. The worst case scenario is that I wouldn't use them for their designed purpose and I'd just pop an empty sealed can in there which would give me 5litres of reserve bouyancy should I ever get flooded!

Anyway all that's for another day.

Pete
http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/



   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users.
It has removed 67184 spam emails to date.
Paying users do not have this message in their emails.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len