From: "howgegoboat" <howgegoboat@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 26 Jan 2008 12:42:19 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.

Hi 

Is the 65ft sail the right size or would it be poible to trim about a foot off the boom considering the strong winds we seem to get more and more these days, one could also have a light spinaker for those barmy summer days. 

Where are you hoping to sail this summer? Maybe we ought to plan a paradox meet, poole harbour? I am in Bradford, Yorkshire where are are you? But parents live near poole. 

Will be cutting my ply toay for my enigma type build, Thinking of using 3/4ply for my winglets approx 6" wide and 3ft long, as Matt suggests the higher aspect ratio helps. I will have to find the website that gives te scientific data behind chine runners. 

Also will have soft top ala enigma, but with timber rails etc. May convert to birdwatcher style later on. 

Yours James

-- In paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com, "" <openboat@...> wrote:

On 26 Jan 2008 at 9:57, howgegoboat wrote:

> hasn't the weather been aweful here in UK, have you been out yet Al, 
> Paradox seems the ideal boat for winter sailing, well apart from a 
> Hunter ranger, Nauticat or Island packet! 
> But at least paradox sailing can be said to be standing in the shower 
> with a hard top over you, trying to tear up 1p coins!

It can be relatively comfortable in the cold weather, but in the winter the wind is usually the deciding factor. If I lived on the coast I would probably go out quite often, but being 2 hours away I need to be sure that it will be ok before I start out. A couple of winters ago I tried to extend my season and found myself, on a couple of occasions, in conditions that were not at all relaxing.

So now I spend the winter earning some money so that I can have a summer holiday (all summer). The plan is to stop work, and start sailing, in April.

As to standing in a shower, no Paradox owner would put up with that!

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>