From: Jeff Michals-Brown <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2008 04:06:35 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.


I launched my Core Sound 20 in 2005, and then last year built a Michalak Piccup Pram to be my little car-top boat.  The little boat (about 112 lb) was going to be my go-anywhere, anytime boat that wouldn't need a ramp.  But in practice it takes me just as long to get the little boat underway as the bigger, more capable and comfortable 20, so I haven't sailed the pram much.  I've decided that, for all the reasons Nels mentions, car-topping is overrated.

From: Nels <arvent@...>  
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2008 03:36:58 -0800 (PST)  
Subject: Re: [paradox] Cabin Sole.  

I totally agree with Al that the ones used on a cat are for an entirely different purpose.A cat sails upright and flat, but not a Paradox.

Also I really have to wonder about car-topping a Paradox design even if you strip it down somewhat to make it lighter. Not sure what size vehicle you plan to carry it on but I hope it isn't too small.

First of all you would have to carry all your associated equipment somewhere inside the car including ballast, water, life jackets, ground tackle - perhaps a motor and gas. In other words the boat has to be completely empty to make it work at all.

Also there is the challenge of taking if off the roof and putting it back on after sailing and not sure how that would work from your average launching ramp, maybe you would need some sort of wheeled dolly, roller set or something. I know in my area it could be really awkward at most locations.

Then when you get home what do you do? Unload it again and store all the equipment inside? Or drive around with it still on the roof?

The advantage of a trailer is that the boat can simply be slid off and into the water and winched back on when you leave. And all the associated equipment stays in the boat all the time. No lifting and transferring of equipment. And then when you get home you simply park the entire works and the car is free for other uses. Same thing if you have to store it away from your home location. It just stays on the trailer at the storage yard all locked up and safe.

In order for the chine runners to be effective Paradox has to be loaded down far enough to sit on it's lines. Enigma is considerably smaller and has a somewhat different chine runner design so it does not need as much weight. Your water and gear and maybe a couple of sand bags is all it needs.

However if you are convinced that a car top version will work I guess then you will find out and create another transport option.

Nels