From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2008 20:15:09 -0000
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.

Hi Al.

My way of thinking with NOLI's bottom being 3/8" is that she displaces just over 500 lbs less than PARADOX for the same size, so she might be less susceptible to hull damage being lighter.
Just make sure you and Bill are close at hand when I am proven wrong.

Jeff UK


From: openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Monday, January 28, 2008 2:22 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Cabin Sole.


On 28 Jan 2008 at 12:50, howgegoboat wrote:

Hi I quite agree, 
that paradox is the micro crusier par excellence, the minature HR, or 
Has Christian anderson of the micro world, but for many of us 
crossing the north sea in a force nine, is not our cup of tea, 
however we value the benifits of interior sailing position, simplcity 
of design, self righting etc to be the essential elements of the 
paradox philosphy. 
yours James, 

I too have no desire to cross the North Sea (especially in a F9) but 
to my mind there is one area that Paradox wins out over both Noli and 
Enigma. I often sum up the advantages of Paradox as 'comfort', but 
one area of comfort not often mentioned is the comfort of confidence. 
I often spend the night beached with like-minded souls in more 
conventional craft. One of the important operations for them is to 
survey the bottom, where they will dry out, for rocks that could 
damage the hull. This is something that I just don't have to bother 
about, the thick bottom board is more than strong enough.

While cruising the West Country last summer with Bill we returned to 
the boats to find that Faith had dried out on a concrete sinker. The 
metal ring on the top of the sinker was almost under the balance 
point with the bows about 3 ft in the air (I don't know why it never 
occurred to me to take a photo). Bill climbed in and waited for the 
tide to return. Later when Faith was on her trailer I was unable to 
see any damage to the bottom.

This general over-construction gives me great confidence that the 
boat will protect me.

Hoping for calm nights

Al, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com> 



   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users.
It has removed 67937 spam emails to date.
Paying users do not have this message in their emails.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len