From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2008 14:38:27 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Cabin Sole.

My thoughts on trying to build really light boats....generally not a good idea.
 
Light weight also means a less robust structure. Modern composite techniques make light strong structures but are more critical in the building process. Beaching on a rocky shore and years of use will show more on a light structure than on a more stout structure Other things being equal  the heavier structure will usually be more seaworthy. It is possible to build a strong light boat which will last a long time and be very seaworthy. Generally those qualities all together will be expensive. 
 
Really light weight may be required to load onto the car roof, or to tow on a trailer, or to go really fast in a race. but for a cruiser/beachcruiser/dayboat, I'd want to spend my time and money building something which can potentially last a long time.


From: Nels <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, January 28, 2008 11:20:45 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Cabin Sole.

I hope you understand that I am not trying to discourage what you are doing but simply providing information about factors you may not be fully aware of. And I encourage any efforts to keep weight down. The heavy bottom on Paradox is not where I would want to cut corners if I were building one.
 
There are probably about 20 or more designs that I know of with the same basic philosophy in mind, shallow draft, flat bottoms, higher topsides to provide added flotation and shelter to the occupants. All have heavier than "normal" bottoms since that is where a good deal of their self-righting ability comes from. Many have been "field tested" to see how self-righting they actually are and every tester has been surprised how well they do their job.
 
There is one example here:
 
http://homepages. apci.net/ ~michalak/
 
Nels


Note: headers have been kept in the original order of to, from, date and subject, and message being replied to has been removed. Formatting has been cleaned up.