From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 28 Feb 2008 18:12:26 -0000
Subject: Re: A few questions.


1.
I've positioned the intermediate deck beam between Bulkheads 1&2 but 
have found that the deck beam on Bkhd 1 is slightly low. I seem to 
recall seeing some photos of someone elses build with this beam built 
up slightly. Is this a common problem or have i measured something 
wrong?
Looks like I'll have to add a strip of 9mm ply or similar, the top of 
the stem also looks like it will need a few mm knocked off!


I can't remember which beams it was, but I had to adjust a couple of 
them. It looks fine now that it is well hidden. :-) I would recommend 
to anyone starting to build to leave these cleats proud, and shape 
them on assembly of the deck


2.
on the Cabin details sheet 10, there is an exploded view of the Corner 
Post detail. I have looked at this from every angle and can still not 
understand what it is trying to show. Is it a plan view or elevation?
What part of the post do the two angles refer too (30=BA & 14=BA).

That is a section through the uprights (as shown in the 'side frame' 
layout at the bottom of the page, with the linking arrow.) It is not 
a true plan as the uprights slope in. What it is really showing is 
the angle (30 or 14) required for the end windows to seat onto when 
they are wrapped round the front and rear. The front window curves 
more than the rear so needs a bigger angle to sit flat on. (does that 
make sense?) It is not too critical, as it can be tweaked on assembly 
(I used a sanding disc on an angle grinder.)


3.
What internal paint available in the UK do you recommend for internal 
finish? Porch paint and the like mean nothing to me! Would a good oil 
based gloss paint be OK over sanded epoxy coating? I've also been 
wondering whether to apply non slip to the cabin sole. I think it would 
be a good idea, in that it would provide a better footing, however as I 
like to wear shorts, it probably wouldn't be too kind on my knees.

I worked on the assumption that any paint designed for external use 
on a house was going to be fairly hard wearing (you'd get annoyed if 
your windows needed repainting every year.) but I used a primer 
(Bulls Eye 1-2-3) which claims to stick to epoxy. This has worked 
well except for the bits I painted in the middle of winter, before 
reading that the Bulls Eye should not be used below 10 Celsius.

Non slip would do no harm, though I have rarely felt the need for it 
inside. On the deck I have fitted strips of non-slip from Ikea (Child 
safety area) at a fraction of the cost from chandlers.

Forward of where my feet sit during normal sailing I have carpeted 
the floor with a length of foam sleeping mat, which is much better 
for the knees. It is also a good idea to have a gardeners kneeling 
mat handy.

Other than that things are progressing steadily.

Jolly good, keep us posted.


Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.