From: "openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 02 Mar 2008 19:06:24 -0000 
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

Hiya folks,

I've been studying this boat for a few weeks now and decided to join this group.

I have been reading the voyage accounts of Matt Layden's and Sven Yrvind's voyages in this tiny boat and frankly I'm impressed.

I like all the details except for two points.

First, the offset mast rankles my sense of symmetry, I would prefer it to be on the centre line. I guess he placed it to port to allow for access to the forward compartment.

Second, the boat is just a fraction on the small side for me as I would prefer company on longer adventure and would prefer just a little 'elbow' room.

My question is this, is there anything wrong with the idea of buying Matts plans for Paradox and 'scaling them up' slightly to allow for forward access but have the mast on centre, and killing two birds with one stone and having a slightly bigger boat?

Will her amazing sea keeping abilities be affected by scaling her up so?

Be aware that changing one thing on a boat has a knock-on effect on other things. 

If you want full symmetry while sailing then you should really move the mast beyond the centre line to put the sail on the centre line. However, if you move the mast you will lose the ability for the furled sail to self-stow on the side deck, and you would probably have to cut a hole in the rear baffle for the sheet to have a fair run.

A larger Paradox has been suggested and discussed many times and there is a document in the files section, under 'Larger Paradox', which summarizes the discussion. It is worth noting the considerable increase in displacement for the 5 metre boat. How much can your car pull? How much do you want to spend on a trailer?

If all you want is a boat for safe, comfortable coastal cruising round the UK, You may be better looking at another design that is designed for 2.

Another thing to consider is do you want a motor? if the answer is definitely a yes then again a Paradox may not be the best bet.

Hoping for calm nights

Al, Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>