From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 03 Mar 2008 20:10:45 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

On 3 Mar 2008 at 11:56, Greg wrote:

As far as the offset mast is concerned, now that the reason has been pointed out to me, it makes perfect sense. I guess I have a fixed idea in my mind based of what has been presented in the likes of Classic Boat, Water Craft and The Boatman magazines as to what makes 
a good cruiser.

Yes, Paradox challenges a number of those preconceived ideas.

At first glance Paradox was anything but what I was lead to expect, but the more I studied things and the exploits of Matt and others - the more I like this little ship.

I still would be comfortable with a little more room, say 15ft?

As-designed paradox has plenty of room for one medium sized person. in my opinion it is only suitable for 2 when day sailing. That said, others, including Matt, have lived aboard with 2 without anyone being murdered or thrown overboard.

I'm attracted to Paradox because of the adventures available from this boat without the need for a huge bankroll and because of the voyage logs available on the net.

Oh yes, adventure is there in spades.

As far as a motor is concerned, I think I could live without one, it just adds more complication to a simple theme, though if pressed I would install a small outboard as others seem to have done.

While others have fitted motors I am not convinced that it sits well with the sailing, and I suspect they mostly motor. The problem is the location of the main sheet. This is almost guaranteed to tangle with anything mounted on the transom. In the worst case, during a violent gybe, I could see the motor being ripped off and thrown into the sea.

The other problem is fuel. I don't fancy having fuel inside the cabin (where I am sleeping and cooking), but there aren't a lot of other places to put it.

My solution has been to fit an electric outboard on a removable bracket on the side of Little Jim. This is purely for emergencies, however, as it only has a range of about 6 miles.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>