From: Greg Bulmer <corporal_nobbs2003@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.
Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2008 09:39:45 +0000 (GMT)

Hello Pete,

With regards to fuel on board, I used to work for a large sign manufacturing company as their surveyor. One of our contracts was to provide signs and canopy edgings for BP petrol stations. I had to attend a BP safety course before I could set foot on any of their site in a professional capacity.

That 3 day course scared me silly! Did you know that statistically a petrol station four-court is the most dangerous place you will enter in your life? And we fill up nearly every day without a care!

You have to treat petrol (gas) and its vapours with the greatest of care especially on foggy days and misty mornings when the vapours sink to the lowest levels i.e. boat bilges!

On such a small boat as Paradox you are in very close proximity to the stuff and in the middle of the ocean is not a place for stuff to go pear shaped on you!

If I were contemplating installing a petrol motor I would seek advice from the people who know petrol first.

Just my own thoughts 

Greg

On Tue, 4 Mar 2008 21:46:31 +0000 (GMT), Pete <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk> wrote:

> I'm still toying with putting on an outboard bracket "just in case" I decide to install one! Until I give up work, I'm going to be in a position where i've got to be home on a certain day and having some backup power may just give me more comfort in the knowledge that I can return to port at a prescribed time. Of course I haven't discovered the joys of the Yuloh yet; I'm hoping this will be more than adequate for my needs. I almost bought a little seagull 40+ the other day which was going for a song. I do worry however about the main sheet routing.

> Indeed neither do I. Funnily enough on my first microcruiser, a 13'4" Polycell Voyager, we used to keep a few gallons of fuel on board down below in old steel oil cans, and never batted an eye lid! I'm still here to tell the tale...

> I have however thought about adding a couple of small fuel compartments in both stern quarters, vented through the transom and completely sealed off from the interior, access from the deck only. These would each hold a standard 5 litre polypropolyene fuel container.

> I knocked up a mock up a few weeks ago to check it would work.
http://www.pdmartin.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/images/fuel.jpg
There's still plenty of room for the tiller to move through it's complete arc. The only problem (although not really a problem)is the access from the deck would be blocked by the end of the Yuloh and the yard and boom (when stowed). I'd also have to commit to cutting the vent baffle, and it took me hours to get it right! 

Pete