From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2008 15:32:47 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

On 9 Mar 2008 at 21:14, jmichalsbr wrote:

Choosing a design based on criteria rather than modifying an existing 
design is good general-purpose advice, but raises a question: ARE 
there in fact any designs similar to Matt's?  I would like to be able 
to cruise two.  I, also, if I build a Paradox, will need a little 
motor of some sort: I have responsibilities, limited spans of time, 
and schedules to keep. Can anyone name me a design that offers 
anything remotely resembling Paradox's combination of sail-from-
inside, self-righting, and shoal draft cruising in a small package?  
I know of designs that can do several of these things, but none that 
offers all.  Jim Michalak's new design, Caroline, is often discussed, 
but I don't think it's in Paradox's class in terms of seaworthiness 
and handiness in windy conditions.


I have little knowledge of other designs (Paradox suits me just fine) 
but I would be surprised if there weren't half a dozen other designs 
that easily fit those criteria (except perhaps the seaworthiness).

I think one of the problems with Paradox is that it is too seaworthy. 
(Seaworthy meaning that it is happy in windy rough conditions).

I have a small motor boat that the family has used as a floating 
caravan for the last 20 odd years. It can withstand quite rough water 
without any coming on board, but it rolls horribly in anything over a 
F4. So while it is still safe from sinking it becomes too 
uncomfortable for enjoyment and so we never go onto open water in 
those conditions. I approve of this as it means we never have any 
desire to go out in silly weather.

 In Little Jim I have been tempted out, on several occasions, into 
conditions that were not sensible simply because I know (believe) 
that the boat will handle it (and so far it has indicated that it 
could handle much more). So far all has been well, but should a piece 
of gear fail then I could be in serious trouble. If I had been 
sailing two up, say in an enlarged Paradox, I would most definitely 
not have gone out. While I am willing to risk myself on a bet that 
nothing will go wrong I would not make that bet for someone else.

You should include in your list of criteria just what sort of weather 
you intend to be out in, Paradox is probably overkill. In 20 odd 
years with a motor boat and 5 with a Paradox I have never been 
'caught out' by a sudden unexpected change in the weather to bad 
conditions. If it got worse it has always been given as a possibility 
by the forecast. So, for coastal cruising, I don't hold with this 
'may be caught out in a gale'. If you are it probably means you 
haven't done your homework properly.

This is all from a UK perspective, I don't know your sailing ground 
so YMMV.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>