From: "alaskamokaiman" <alaskamokaiman@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2008 08:31:24 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

Take a look at mokai.com they have petrol storage in an enclosed engine compartment with a small vent to the out side and a line to 
the motor.

From: bud e <bud_4444@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2008 16:01:11 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

Hello Greg,

I agree wholeheartedly with what you say about the dangers of petrol.

The few times I had a petrol can in the aft end of the cockpit I always took a full size bath towel, soaked it in the water and laid it 
over the petrol can. When the towel started to dry I would resoak it and replace it over the petrol can.

I don't see why a small area large enough to carry 1/2 gallon or one gallon can of petrol under the paradox aft deck could not be 
enclosed with fiberglass covering both the inside and outside with two vents. For entry there would be a small hatch with a rubber 
gasket in the aft deck. I see no reason why this would not be a safe thing to do.

Just my 2 cents worth. :-)

Bud 

From: greg bulmer <corporal_nobbs2003@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2008 12:07:26 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

Hello Pete,

With regards to fuel on board, I used to work for a large sign manufacturing company as their surveyor. 

One of our contracts was to provide signs and canopy edgings for BP petrol stations. I had to attend a BP safety course before I 
could set foot on any of their site in a professional capacity.

That 3 day course scared me silly! Did you know that statistically a petrol station four-court is the most dangerous place you will 
enter in your life? And we fill up nearly every day without a care!

You have to treat petrol (gas) and its vapours with the greatest of care especially on foggy days and misty mornings when the 
vapours sink to the lowest levels i.e. boat bilges!

On such a small boat as Paradox you are in very close proximity to the stuff and in the middle of the ocean is not a place for stuff 
to go pear shaped on you!

If I were contemplating installing a petrol motor I would seek advice from the people who know petrol first.

Just my own thoughts 

Greg

From: Pete <pdmartin@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2008 21:56:53 -0000
Subject: [Paradox] Re: Hello :o) In new here.

--- In paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com, "" <openboat@...> wrote:
>
> > As far as a motor is concerned, I think I could live without one, 
it 
> > just adds more complication to a simple theme, though if pressed 
I 
> > would install a small outboard as others seem to have done.
> 
> While others have fitted motors I am not convinced that it sits 
well 
> with the sailing, and I suspect they mostly motor. The problem is 
the 
> location of the main sheet. This is almost guaranteed to tangle 
with 
> anything mounted on the transom. In the worst case, during a 
violent 
> gybe, I could see the motor being ripped off and thrown into the sea.

I'm still toying with putting on an outboard bracket "just in case" I decide to install one! Until I give up work, I'm going to be in a 
position where i've got to be home on a certain day and having some backup power may just give me more comfort in the knowledge that I 
can return to port at a prescribed time. Of course I haven't discovered the joys of the Yuloh yet; I'm hoping this will be more than 
adequate for my needs. I almost bought a little seagull 40+ the other day which was going for a song. I do worry however about the 
main sheet routing.

> The other problem is fuel. I don't fancy having fuel inside the cabin 
> (where I am sleeping and cooking), but there aren't a lot of other 
> places to put it.

Indeed neither do I. Funnily enough on my first microcruiser, a 13'4" Polycell Voyager, we used to keep a few gallons of fuel on board down 
below in old steel oil cans, and never batted an eye lid! I'm still here to tell the tale...

I have however thought about adding a couple of small fuel compartments in both stern quarters, vented through the transom and 
completely sealed off from the interior, access from the deck only. These would each hold a standard 5 litre polypropolyene fuel 
container.

I knocked up a mock up a few weeks ago to check it would work.
http://www.pdmartin.pwp.blueyonder.co.uk/images/fuel.jpg
There's still plenty of room for the tiller to move through it's complete arc. The only problem (although not really a problem)is the 
access from the deck would be blocked by the end of the Yuloh and the yard and boom (when stowed). I'd also have to commit to cutting 
the vent baffle, and it took me hours to get it right! 

Pete