From: "" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 16 Mar 2008 21:34:52 -0000
Subject: Re: Hello :o) In new here.

On 16 Mar 2008 at 20:34, Pete wrote:

The main sheet is one item I have pondered over for many a long hour. It doesn't seem like it's in the most logical place and it's one of those things which I have in mind to alter!

Now Glen Maxwell has moved and rerouted his main sheet to stop it fouling on his self steering gear, and he has more or less gone for my intended set up (mine would have a couple more blocks but similar routing). I think with this arrangement, fouling of a motor would be reduced considerably and is a much less cumbersome and with less friction especially when sailing well off the wind. Glen's photo of his arrangement is here: http://tinyurl.com/328h2f

Unfortunately the url didn't work.

To my mind the problem of the sheet fouling a transom-hung motor is not to do with where the sheet enters the hull, but the fact that it is attached to the end of the boom.

When running before the wind with the boom well out to one side I have quite often suffered an unplanned gybe (mainly because I am not concentrating on the sailing). When this happens the end of the boom, with main sheet attached, swings right round the boat from one side to the other, sometimes quite violently. The sheet starts draped across the deck and as the boom swings over, will wrap itself round anything sticking up above the deck. In my case it often ends up round a cleat or the yuloh pin. Not a problem as I can easily reach it to just flip it off. If it were round a motor, if it hadn't ripped the motor off the bracket, it would be much more difficult to reach to free off (standing on the seat and leaning far over the aft deck).

If you always take in all the slack when gybing this may not be so much of a problem, but you will have to concentrate on the sailing much more than I do.

It might work, keep us posted about how you get on.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>