From: "Greg" <corporal_nobbs2003@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 05 Apr 2008 22:17:13 -0000
Subject: Paradox Plans - the studying of.

Right!

I got the plans in my sticky mitts on April 1st - April fools day :o) 
ominous or what?

Got them embalmed in clear sticky backed plastic and photo copied 
them twice so I can make notes. (did any of the UK guys notice the 
difference in USA paper sizes to A3? chopped off the left and right 
margins! - just a niggle!) :o) 

It's now that I'm beginning to put paradox together in my head by 
pouring over the drawings.

I've got the mast drawings sussed after much head scratching and 
searching on the net for help.

Four things are causing me problems at the moment.

1. The stem piece block seems to be missing dimensions for the back 
face? Am I expected to use trigonometry and work back from the front 
face measurement using the 29 degrees on the cross section on sheet 7?

2. The base of the vent trunk and how the mast sits is giving me 
trouble. Can any of you guys direct me to photo's of that area?

3. The cabin framing structure is giving me a headache in that I'm 
having trouble visualising how the bottom and top side rails of the 
side frame on sheet 10 marry with the laminated deck framing pieces 
at the front and rear of the cabin structure. 

The transverse section at cabin side on sheet 10 show the top of the 
bottom rail as being horizontal, but the front and back plywood 
laminated pieces follow the curve of the deck. How do all these 
pieces meet at the corners and what joints should I use?

Sheet 3 (middle left) shows a plan view of the port side corner of 
the front laminated piece where the front screen attaches, do the 
bottom face of the corner posts sit in that notch flush with the 
deck,with the side rails butting up against the back faces? 

Is the the joint at the top of the corner posts treated in a similar 
way?

4. The tack strop on sheet 9 runs inside the brass pipe spacer and 
hence on through a flared copper tube line entry in the deck. My 
question is will the edge of the tube dig into the deck surface? How 
has that joint been dealt with on completed boats?

I'll apologise in advance for what you fellow might see as dumb 
questions but my Ma always says 'if you don't ask you don't get!' 

Your going to get lots of questions in the future.

Any and all offers of help will be greatly received.

Best regards

Greg