From: "openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox Plans - the studying of.
Date: Sun, 06 Apr 2008 11:55:13 +0100


On 5 Apr 2008 at 22:17, Greg wrote:


Right!

I got the plans in my sticky mitts on April 1st - April fools day :o) 
ominous or what?

Got them embalmed in clear sticky backed plastic and photo copied 
them twice so I can make notes. (did any of the UK guys notice the 
difference in USA paper sizes to A3? chopped off the left and right 
margins! - just a niggle!) :o) 

It's now that I'm beginning to put paradox together in my head by 
pouring over the drawings.

I've got the mast drawings sussed after much head scratching and 
searching on the net for help.

Four things are causing me problems at the moment.

1. The stem piece block seems to be missing dimensions for the back 
face? Am I expected to use trigonometry and work back from the front 
face measurement using the 29 degrees on the cross section on sheet 7?
  
Don't worry about getting this, or the bulkhead cleats, accurate 
before assembly. Make them oversize and then trim the bevels during 
the trial assembly. I worked it all out in 3D CAD and made it 
perfectly, then, on assembly, found I had a big gap to fill with 
epoxy (epoxy is your friend).

2. The base of the vent trunk and how the mast sits is giving me 
trouble. Can any of you guys direct me to photo's of that area?

You can get an idea of what my mast step looks like at 
http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com/ and click on 'Trial Assembly'.

I simply built up the shape using offcuts and epoxy, leaving a square 
recess for the mast foot, then trimmed it off with an angle grinder 
and coarse sanding disc.
  
I would recommend that you build the mast first, and fit the vent 
trunk to bulkhead 2 before assembly. This allows you to set up the 
mast and bulkhead horizontally on trestles and do multiple trial fits 
as you do the final trim on the mast step and partners. Much easier 
than lifting the mast in and out on the part finished hull.

3. The cabin framing structure is giving me a headache in that I'm 
having trouble visualising how the bottom and top side rails of the 
side frame on sheet 10 marry with the laminated deck framing pieces 
at the front and rear of the cabin structure. 

Just butt them together and fair in with epoxy

Sheet 3 (middle left) shows a plan view of the port side corner of 
the front laminated piece where the front screen attaches, do the 
bottom face of the corner posts sit in that notch flush with the 
deck,with the side rails butting up against the back faces? 

Once you have the cabin side frames made (sheet 10) and present them 
to the ends of the front and rear laminated pieces it is obvious how 
it all fits.

Is the the joint at the top of the corner posts treated in a similar 
way?

Yes, just trim the top of the corner posts and the roof beam to fit 
together. It is easier to do than to explain :-)

4. The tack strop on sheet 9 runs inside the brass pipe spacer and 
hence on through a flared copper tube line entry in the deck. My 
question is will the edge of the tube dig into the deck surface? How 
has that joint been dealt with on completed boats?
  
Yes, it does some damage to the deck. I flared out the bottom of the 
strut and built up a pad of epoxy round the deck entry. I think Bill 
fitted a tufnol pad. A metal washer could easily be fitted.

The damage on little Jim is mostly restricted to wearing through the 
paint. Most of the time, while sailing, the tie down is in tension 
and the strut is held off the deck. The only time when there is 
prolonged contact is when sailing with a deep reef (which I try to 
avoid).

I think as long as the bottom of the strut does not have sharp edges 
it will not be a major problem. The fact that you have seen it as a 
potential problem now probably means you will avoid it.

I'll apologise in advance for what you fellow might see as dumb 
questions but my Ma always says 'if you don't ask you don't get!' 

Your going to get lots of questions in the future.

Any and all offers of help will be greatly received.

Don't worry about the dumb questions. I remember the confusion that I 
had when I first stared. But take heart, as you approach each step, 
because you are building on what you have done before, it will 
quickly become obvious what has to be done next.

As an aside, I would recommend that you make all the bits and pieces 
(rudder, mast etc) first. There are 2 advantages to this. The first 
is physical. It is easier to work on them without the completed boat 
clogging up your work space. The second is psychological. You get to 
see a finished piece of your boat early on and when the hull is 
finally completed you are ready to launch immediately.


Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com