From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2008 21:09:11 +0100 (BST)
Subject: Re: Outboards and fuel storage onboard Paradox

hello folks

I'd  just like to point out - though I'm sure that you already know - that batteries when being charged up give off highly flamible/ explosive Hydrogen gas.

Years ago at our garage, the young apprentice was detailed to remove a car battery from the charger to refit to a customers car. He  failed to turn the battery charger off before pulling off the crocadile clips from the battery terminals. Next thing there was a dull whumph noise , the top had blown off the battery and the young lad was covered in acid.

Not really such a disaster as we chucked a bucket full of dirty water over him which happened to be nearby. So no permanent harm to the kid - just a bit shaken up.

This hydrogen gas explosion would have been far more serious if it had happened in a confined space  such as a Paradox cabin  instead of a large open workshop.

I don't want to rain on your parade. Just would like to point out that electric batteries may be just as risky as a can of petrol on a little cabin boat.

Petrol has such a distinctive smell that most people would be aware of a minor leak before it became a safety hazard. That factor alone might mean it's a safer alternative.

Must admit though that a small solar charger would give a small charging current and cause minimal gassing form the battery. And energy for free does appeal.

Jim Hall


From: Greg <corporal_nobbs2003@yahoo.co.uk> 
Date: N/A
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Subject: Electric drive for the Paradox


Hello Denny,

Thanks for the info, electric drive is certainly and option and I agree that the batteries would make  great ballast.

I have been digging around on the net and found a useful yahoo group dedicated to the subject at

http://groups.yahoo.com/group/electricboats/

I haven't had a good look yet but they have some interesting info.

My only concern would be whether solar panels would be able to keep up with the charging demand of the batteries though I'm no expert in either field!

Greg




From: Greg <corporal_nobbs2003@yahoo.co.uk>
Date: N/A
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Outboards and fuel storage onboard Paradox


Bill and all,

I have been reading for the second time Gerry Speiss's account of his west to east Atlantic crossing as well as following Bill Sergeant's cruising blog aboard Faith, both of which I'm enjoying immensely.

In Gerry's book he makes notes about his distress at the odour of fuel in the cabin space of Yanky Girl despite the fact that his fuel cans were not leaking. I read that Bill has recently lost the filler cap for his Honda outboard overboard!

All of which prompted my cuurent line of thinking about the location of fuel on board Paradox.

As I'm at the pre-build stage at the moment, it would be nice to design a space in her stern for fuel storage but avoid the smell of fuel in the cabin.

Could fuel 'bins' be built in the port and starboard quarters much like the water tanks in Paradox's design, where filler caps and vents would be placed on the quarter deck and sealed off from the cabin space?

Bill, how are you finding this situation aboard Faith? How are others dealing with it aboard their micro cruisers?

Greg