From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2008 18:47:42 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Outboards and fuel storage onboard Paradox

Yes, thanks for clarifying the power output of the wind generator. As you mentioned though, at 9 mph you still get useful power out.

And yes solar panels are getting better and cheaper everyday, an all electric world isn't all that far away.

Denny ...


Chris Curtis wrote:

This is a great product, but that mill only puts out the 400W of power in 28 mph winds or higher.  It 9mph winds, it would probably only get 50-70W.  Still a great device, and not taking anything from your observations!

On the same note, some time ago I read an article, about an electric cat if not mistaken.  They had electric power, and planned to rely on their large bank of batteries.  They also installed a reasonable number of panels, to be an "adjunct" the the shore charging.  In real use, they found they could do 6 knots off just the panels in good sun continuously (as long as they had sun).   Now I wish I would have bookmarked that site!

I think were going to see much more powerful panels in the next few years hit the consumer market.  In the near future, electric powered motors are going to become more accepted, more functional, and popular (in my humble and completely uninformed opinion!).

Dennis Mingear wrote:

I would use one of these Alan, an Air-X Marine Mx-1 Wind Generator. 

http://www.defender.com/product.jsp?path=-1%7C328%7C337248&amp;id=336586

400 watts at 12 volts in 9 mph of wind, should be adequate for what we are discussing. I've seen them as cheap as 500 dollars from some discount houses.

This generator and 4 very good batteries could be used to replace the lead ballast in a Paradox and supply plenty of power for all the little things on a boat that size.

Denny ...

Alan wrote:

Hi,
Don't wish to be a doomsayer, but-
Unfortunately the numbers do not add up when looking at electric power as your only system.
Solar panels wont be adequate for replenishing batteries if these are to be used for propulsion and cooking, and a wind generator would need to have blades of 6' and upwards in order to get any useful amount of power-impossible on a tiny Paradox-size boat.
You could get upto 100watts from a pedal-powered generator...
or a water-powered one if sailing with plenty of wind might be useful without slowing you down too much. Some of these are designed to be towed behind the boat, so no complicated transom  mounting required.
If the micro-wave mentioned is only about 50% efficient, I'd expect a simple immersion heating element could be more efficient if used in a very well insulated container to reduce heat losses. A resistive  (immersion heater) element is 100% efficient-all the power it uses  ends up as heat- so if you manage to not lose any of that, I think it would be a better bet. Perhaps make up something using a thermos as  the heated vessel?
Having said all this, an electric cooker of some sort could be good  to have as a VERY occasional thing if conditions were so bad that the  gimballed gas stove was not safe to use.
Cheers,
Alan.

Dennis Mingear wrote:

This is exactly the reason that I think electric auxiliary power is a better option on something  this small. The stove is always going to be to close to  the outboard fuel supply for my tastes.

My idea was to replace a large amount of the useless  lead ballast with some very useful deep cycle batteries. A small wind generator would be adequate for charging the battery bank and the batteries could be used for a lot more than just running the electric outboard.

Some of the new radar system a very small and light weight. An amateur radio for calls home. And of course a way to keep the ever essential computer/gps navigation system alive. 

And a small inverter and you can also have a limited  amount of AC on board for other essentials.

On something as small as the Paradox I think that everything needs to provide some added value, including the ballast.

When the Paradox is docked in the side yard next to  the house the wind generator and battery bank can provide some useful backup power when needed, which is all too often in my area.

Just my two cents worth ... Denny

Greg wrote:

Bill and all,

I have been reading for the second time Gerry Speiss's account of his  west to east Atlantic crossing as well as following Bill Sergeant's  cruising blog aboard Faith, both of which I'm enjoying immensely.

In Gerry's book he makes notes about his distress at the odour of  fuel in the cabin space of Yanky Girl despite the fact that his fuel  cans were not leaking. I read that Bill has recently lost the filler  cap for his Honda outboard overboard!

All of which prompted my cuurent line of thinking about the location  of fuel on board Paradox.

As I'm at the pre-build stage at the moment, it