From: "rhaldridge" <knobmaker@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 15 Apr 2008 09:55:06 -0000
Subject: Pleasure while cruising


That's a fine attitude, but I don't share it.  Certainly the anchorages are fascinating, but around here it gets pretty dark after the sun goes down.  While there are still many pleasures to be had in a dark anchorage, when you've heard one mullet splash, you've heard them all.  I'm not one of those fortunate few who can go to bed as soon as the light fails.  In fact, I rarely go to bed before midnight, even when cruising. 

I can't dismiss music and films and books as "escapism."  To me, they are art, and a day without art is a crippled day, from my point of view.  An hour or two of music, or a great film that makes you feel a part of something larger than yourself is not a distraction; rather it is an enhancement of the cruising experience. Spices don't distract one from good food; they make it even better.

And you read while sailing?  Is that not a distraction from the experience?  Of course, I like to fish while sailing, and I can only hope to be distracted.

One of my most vivid memories involves music and sailing.  On our honeymoon, my bride and I chartered a Pearson 323 for a week.  The boat had a very good sound system, though this was in the prehistoric era of cassette tapes.  Coming home at the end of the vacation, surfing down big Gulf rollers in bright sunlight, I had an Annie Lennox tape playing, and the music seemed to be counterpointed by the crush of the boat against the sea, the myriad sounds of sailing a part of the chorus.

To me, the point of going cruising is pleasure, and why give up any of the pleasures of life, just because we happen to be aboard a boat?  I want to eat well and drink good wine, I want to listen to mind-expanding music.  I want to sleep in a comfortable berth with a beautiful woman (though I hasten to add that this only happens when my wife is able to go with me.) If I want to enjoy a good film or a documentary, why not?  Sometimes I'll prefer a book, and again, why not?

The experience of cruising, at least for me, is such a rich and compelling one that there is no danger of "escaping" from it.  The music you hear in a lonely anchorage many miles from the nearest house is intrinsically different from music played on the car radio as you go to work.  The book you read in your cozy bunk while the boat rocks you toward sleep will be a special experience, not to be duplicated in your armchair at home.

Remember, my exemplar is Blondie Hasler, who sailed across the Atlantic in his bedroom slippers.

And why not?

Ray