From: "rhaldridge" <knobmaker@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Thu, 17 Apr 2008 15:18:45 -0000 
Subject: Slider is launched

After several years of scheming and 19 months of construction, my little beach-cruising open-hulled catamaran hit the water for the first time yesterday. We launched her at a neighborhood ramp about a mile from the house, and all went remarkably well.

My idea for using Dyneema cord to tension the wire forestay worked very well, and putting up the mast took less than a minute. The mainsail was already bent on, and the boom jaws allowed the whole package to just lie alongside the mast while trailing.

I'd rigged up a purchase from the back of the trailer to a rope bridle at the bows, and was able to use the trailer winch to crank the boat right off the bunks.

Performance: I had high hopes for the boat, but since this was my first design ever, I was prepared for disappointment. Happily, the boat so far has greatly exceeded my highest expectations.

The sprit-sloop rig seems very powerful for its modest size-- 140 sq. ft. The mainsail was made at home with loving hands. I'm no sailmaker, but it set pretty well. I used the simple dart-at-the-tack-and-throat technique, rather than broadseaming, and built the sail out of a white polytarp. The jib is second-hand, from a Snipe, and is quite small, but adds a lot of drive.

Winds were modest yesterday, as is appropriate for a first test sail. The highest wind speed recorded around the area during the time we were out was 9.04 knots. Our best speed close reaching was 6.2 knots on the GPS, and we could make 5 to windward.

Hull speed doesn't mean much for cats with low-resistance hulls, but ours is 5.1 knots.

In fact, windward performance was surprisingly good, despite the fact that I screwed up the fastening of the daggerboard to the foldover extension, so that I could only get about 8 inches of daggerboard down before it jammed. I expect we'll point pretty high and foot pretty fast once that is fixed. The Wednesday night yacht club race was going on while we were out, and we fell in for a while behind the slower end of the fleet on their windward leg. We were keeping up with 25 foot monos to windward-- not too bad for a 16' cat built for comfort instead of speed.

Overall, the feel of the boat is lively, but it's not at all squirrely. The steering is very responsive once the rudders are in their down position. There's a modest amount of weather helm, which does not increase noticeably in the puffs, for some reason. It takes a little getting used to, because the steering lines have to be pulled in different directions, depending on which hull you steer from. But it's so responsive that a small twitch of the line produces a noticeable shift in direction, so when I got confused, I'd twitch it one way, and if that was wrong, it was easy to twitch it back the other.

The boat is very steady, and feels like a much bigger boat in some ways. There was no hobbyhorsing (though there wasn't a lot of chop, we did cross a couple powerboat wakes.) I was astonished at how dry the boat is. When we crossed those wakes, a little spray drifted back, but hardly a drop of water hit the decks while we were out. The seats are comfortable, and we discovered that the best place to sit was near the forward end of the cockpit, where motion is least. Visibility is perfect, because your line of sight is well below the foot of both sails.

One of my big worries was how well the boat would tack, and in fact that was one reason I went with the sprit-sloop rig-- if worse came to worst, I knew I could get the boat to tack by backing the jib. But in fact it tacks better than any cat I've ever sailed on. No special technique needed-- you just put down the helm and across she goes. She tacks like a monohull. We didn't even lose much speed while tacking if we handled the jib sheets smartly. Later, coming into a narrow bayou with the jib down and the wind very light, we were able to beat up the bayou with no difficulty.

Problems: I guess these have to be expected with any new boat, especially one as different as this. But the problems so far seem small and readily fixable. So in addition to the daggerboard problem:

One of my seat bottoms cracked-- it was a square of 1/4 inch ply bolted to the bottom of the plastic seat. The other was made of 1/2 inch and it was fine.

I'd rigged a clew purchase by drilling a hole in the end of the boom, putting a loop of Dyneema through it, with a block cow-hitched to one side, and a stopper knot on the other. This arrangement pulled out of the boom in the first good puff, and we had to finish the outing with the clew outhaul threaded through the hole. which didn't give me a good enough purchase to get the foot tight.

The vestigial tillers on the boat need to be cut off, because they sometimes fouled the mainsheet. And some of my mainsheet blocks are inadequate-- they are the cheapest Racelite 1/4" blocks that Duckworks sells, and they should have swivels.

Lastly, I need a stronger purchase on the sprit, and maybe a stiffer sprit. I sometimes had a bit of a crease between throat and clew.

I don't have pics of the boat sailing yet, but my sons took a few at the ramp, and I'll go take a few today of the boat lying in my excellent neighbor's slip, and post them later.

I want to thank everyone on the group for your advice, encouragement and criticisms. I know that a large part of the design's success is due to your help, and I'm very grateful. I'll probably post this message in the several groups that I've spend the most time on, over the last several years, because I've found help from an enormous number of people. I'm certain I couldn't have done it without you.

A note on the boat's name: The Slider is a "deceptively fast aquatic turtle."

Ray