From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Jun 2008 00:38:24 +0100
Subject: Re: Mast Making

The funny thing is that when I fitted and finished the chine runners to NOLI I had the idea to fillet the corners. I used a fillet stick to do the radius. 
They are both glassed over now so there is no turning back.
The top outside edge of the CR's is also finished with a crisp edge with a round to the underside.
I quite enjoyed the fairing in of the forward part of the chine runners into the hull. All done by touch.
There are some photo's in the NOLI folder.
I finished the mast today except for trimming it to length to fit inside the hull through the transom and the painting.

Jeff UK
 
From: Dennis Mingear 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Mast Making

I agree with you Al. I come to sailboats from a sailplane point of view, I'm a pilot.
Sharp corners will introduce turbulence and the remedy is to add a small fillet at the intersection of two components like these.
However it doesn't need to be a big fillet. Something as small as a half inch fillet can be very effective in reducing turbulence and therefore drag at an intersection like we are discussing here.
You could probably use a mixture of epoxy, flox and microsheres covered with a three inch glass tape to fillet the area and obtain all of the improvement that's possible in an intersection like this.

Denny ... 

From: openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Mast Making
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, June 12, 2008, 1:51 PM
 
On 12 Jun 2008 at 17:20, Stephen Yahn wrote:
 
> Hi Glen
> Thats wonderful news. I can't wait. By the way I noticed that you left 
> off the big wooden fillet on the chine runners.
> I'm intending to do the 
> same. I attended a talk once about induced drag in airplane wings. It 
> was by Eugene Larabee from MIT. The focused on chordwise flow over the 
> wings. And also some degree of spanwise flow near the wingtips. The 
> wellknown wingtip vortices or spirals trailing in the aircrafts wake is 
> proof of the wasted energy, or induced drag. The solution of winglets 
> to retard spanwise flow is the abstract behind chine runners (IMHO). So 
> therefor I think they should work better if the runners had more "edge-
> ing".

I think Glen built to plan.
 
It will be interesting to see how they work without the fillet. It 
will be easy enough to retrofit if it is not as good. Of course you 
will have to make some sort of temporary fillet to compare your mod 
with, otherwise you will never know if it is better or worse (unless 
it is a lot worse).
 
My own feeling is that you will get a lot of turbulence in the corner.
 

Hoping for calm nights
 
Al, 
Yeovil, England. 
 
 

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users.
It has removed 82990 spam emails to date.
Paying users do not have this message in their emails.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len