From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 23 Jun 2008 15:28:24 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: newbie...just ordered plans

Thank-you....Perfect.... I am falling in love with this little thing. Rod


From: <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, June 23, 2008, 3:22 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] newbie...just ordered plans 

On 23 Jun 2008 at 11:04, Rodney Cannon wrote:

Hi all,
 My name is Rod Cannon and I live in Venice, California. I just ordered the plans for Paradox after weeks of deliberation over it or the "Black Skimmer" design. I chose Paradox hands down cause I am a bit of a gadget gizmo man and this craft is wonderous! 
 I will begin building in the fall and preparing to sail in the summer of 09'. I was a Professional Magician (specializing in micro-magic. ..heh) for over 20 yrs. and I am an avid electronics geek. I want to apologize now for any cockamanie idea I come up with that is not feasable, be easy as I am new to boats and boating. (presently taking navigation and sailing classes in Marina Del Rey to get certified,)=A0 I plan on using this boat for very short distances next year until I feel capable. 
 I have a couple of ideas to share later as to the electrical system in Paradox, but right now I was wondering if anybody has thought of using an electric motor instead of gasoline? 
I know a trolling motor might not be enough power but teck has gotton better and I have seen all kinds of Micro-generators new to the market that might run an electric motor using way less gas than a standard. (a reg. genny 1000w will run approx 6hrs. on a gal. of gas)
I found a seylar trolling motor for under $100 dollars on net that give 18 lbs. of thrust, I dont know enough yet about the subject but is this enough to move Paradox at least 3 knts?

Welcome aboard.

I use the 28lb thrust Minn Kota 12V electric motor. It will push little Jim at 3 knots consuming 30A or at 2 knots consuming 15A. (approximately) .

Hoping for calm nights

Al, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com>