From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 23 Jun 2008 18:34:25 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: newbie...just ordered plans

I know about the peddle charger, that might be ok to use, if for no other reason you probably wont get much exercise on a Paradox while sailing.

I'm very interested in your small wind genny but the link didn't work for, I cut and pasted into my browser.

I would definitely like to see what you're talking about, sounds perfect for a Paradox.

Denny ...


From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, June 23, 2008, 1:04 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] newbie...just ordered plans

Dennis,

 Thanks for the link... I ordered plans for the Aquasub by RJ Riley awhile back and he uses a very unique elec. system. The batteries are completely enclosed in a watertight seal using a device to eat hydrogen throwoff. (cheap to make). He uses 2 6volt golf cart batteries to power an exhaust fan and 2 trolling motors and claims to get 4 hours of continuous power motor. I would mainly be using sail, using the electric motor only when needed. I was thinking of either a small movable wind turbine or a combo of solar and generator for power-replacement. The batteries could be mounted on a small plank and moveable to pre-positioned brackets to act as ballast. 
 Here is a link for a very small genny, http://www.wisesales.com/YamahaEF1000iS.html , but I have seen one almost half this size that was 5oo watts..... also someone posted in the files section a peddle charger...looked kewl.. Thats enough outta me til I get the plans. (no sense in lookn like too big a dumba$$, heh)

Thanks for your time,

Rod

From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, June 23, 2008, 11:55 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] newbie...just ordered plans


A hybrid boat, very nice idea. There has been a lot of discussion on one of the Yahoo electric boat lists about hybrid concepts lately.

There isn't much room on a Paradox, 13 and 1/2 feet can disappear pretty quickly, even single-handed.

I wouldn't want to discourage you from at least pursuing the idea because it is interesting.

You would need a battery plus the generator to drive the trolling motor or whatever you try, but you'll need a battery for the minimal electronics you'll have on board anyway. The Paradox is small so a trolling motor might be an option, see link;

http://bbs.trailersailor.com/forums/articles/index.cgi/noframes/read/23

The generator will have multiple uses beyond keeping your motor and battery alive but size will be an important consideration as well as venting the exhaust gases.

Hope the link helps get you started.

Denny ...

From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, June 23, 2008, 11:04 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] newbie...just ordered plans

Hi all,
 My name is Rod Cannon and I live in Venice, California. I just ordered the plans for Paradox after weeks of deliberation over it or the "Black Skimmer" design. I chose Paradox hands down cause I am a bit of a gadget gizmo man and this craft is wonderous!

 I will begin building in the fall and preparing to sail in the summer of 09'. I was a Professional Magician (specializing in micro-magic...heh) for over 20 yrs. and I am an avid electronics geek. I want to apologize now for any cockamanie idea I come up with that is not feasable, be easy as I am new to boats and boating. (presently taking navigation and sailing classes in Marina Del Rey to get certified,) I plan on using this boat for very short distances next year until I feel capable. 

 I have a couple of ideas to share later as to the electrical system in Paradox, but right now I was wondering if anybody has thought of using an electric motor instead of gasoline?
I know a trolling motor might not be enough power but teck has gotton better and I have seen all kinds of Micro-generators new to the market that might run an electric motor using way less gas than a standard. (a reg. genny 1000w will run approx 6hrs. on a gal. of gas)
I found a seylar trolling motor for under $100 dollars on net that give 18 lbs. of thrust, I dont know enough yet about the subject but is this enough to move Paradox at least 3 knts?