From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2008 15:07:02 -0000
Subject: Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

Sorry  the above is far from being factual, because it does not factor
in the amount of energy the body uses to convert the beans into a form
of energy it can actually utilize. The process of digestion and
assimilation and distribution through the bloodstream uses considerable
energy.

Also while rowing, the body is using energy to stay alive, like keep the
lungs pumping, the heart beating the bioelectrical and biochemical
processes that are constantly running the nervous system (and hopefully
the brain) as well as the muscles as well as rebuilding new cells as
well as  separating out and eliminating all the waste, including lactic
acid from the muscle cells.

It may be using energy to produce sweat to keep the body temperature in
an extremely narrow temperature range for operating efficiency,
producing melatonin to protect the skin from  the dangerous narrow band
of rays of the sun, and even keeping your hair growing to protect you
from bugs:-) Some foods actually use more energy to eliminate than what
they produce.  And not just Chinese food either:-)

Of course the human body, like a battery has energy storage capacity in
the form of blood glucose and fat, but these reserves take energy to get
them flowing into the system as well. And like a deep cycle storage
battery you can do serious damage if you run it down too far.

By camparison a small 4-stroke outboard like Bill uses, together with 5
liters of gas has an order of magnitude greater amount of potential
energy per pound and is probably far more simple to get up and running
(Usually) than Bill.

Also if you take the combined weight and expense of two batteries, solar
panels, wind generator, a trolling motor, and all the wires and
connectors that go with it - you will go far further, faster with the
equivalent weight in a small gas outboard and fuel and it will cost
considerably less, and is a lot easier to set up.

Now if you add a gas/petrol gen-set, things get really messy as you have
to carry gas/petrol and eliminate CO fumes, as well as potentially
hydrogen off-gassing from the batteries.

Solar panels are notoriously optimistic in their generating claims, and
along with the wind generator are affected by the sails. Wind generators
hardly ever work in marinas which by design are in sheltered areas and
solar panels love to collect a coating of dust and salt.

However - don't let my words deter anyone from trying!

Nels