From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2008 17:25:37 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

There is no easy solution here. I think it's personal taste. Sail and yulah are fine for almost all situations anyway. An emergency system of some type that would see you thru 4-6 hrs of travel should be sufficient, as good seamanship and planning is the best prevention of such a problem. Myself, what with gas prices climbing and the green thing I would like to try the electric motor and a dedicated golf cart battery system. (2 6volt) This and another solar panel dedicated to only these 2 batteries to keep them topped off... not really for recharge as I would hope to hardly ever have to use them. (there are now good flexible solars that u can walk on top of available, lightweight)

From: Nels <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2008 17:14:00 -0700
Subject: Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

I agree Alan that a yuloh or ro should be carried on every small sailboat that can't be easily paddled or rowed. 

And the motor can be considered mostly as a back-up safety device;

If you see some weather approaching and would like to gain a safe refuge and the motor seems the most sensible solution.

If the winds have dropped off to the point that neither the sails nor manual power will get you to your destination before dark . A motor can be viewed as a substitute for the traditional light air sails and the crew needed to make them work.

You have to avoid other traffic or overcome a strong tidal or river current..

You have a schedule to stay on due to limited time available.

The water or winds get too ornery to easily control the boat with either the sail or the yuloh.

You get injured, ill, the boat gets damaged so it can't sail or the yuloh breaks - or you simply miscalculated your abilities and have to abort the remainder of the journey.

I also think a motor offers a bit more freedom and flexibility, but at the same time it's limitations must be held in mind. A broken shear pin or some water in the gas, while rounding a rocky point in a blow can result in a panic situation and perhaps a crash landing in surf. Don't ask me how I know!