From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 26 Jun 2008 19:19:17 -0000
Subject: Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

I don't think just because you have a motor you automatically lose connection to the sea - or in my case the lakes and rivers. With a small motor you can't ignore nature.

I have about 12 miles upstream on a river with some small rapids in places - to even get to the lake. I could do it paddling with the canoe - but know I couldn't sculling a sailboat. Besides most of my paddling is downstream if possible.

Now I can see the big draggers have stirred up the bay
Leaving lobster traps smashed on the bottom
And they think it don't pay to respect the old ways
That make and break men have not forgotten
For we still keep our time to the turn of the tide
In this boat that I built with my father
Still lifts to the sky! The one-lunger and I
Still talk like old friends on the water
From his song "Make and Break Harbour" .... Stan Rogers ....

---
From: Jeff apcf14@...
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 25 Jun 2008 04:02:52 -0000
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

Of course Nils we could always take up Golf.

But as Al said in that he could quite happily scull with his Yuloh for several hours doing a steady two knots seems fine with me.
The trouble starts when the skipper wants to go a set number of miles in a set amount of time.
If that is the case then perhaps the skipper should look at his or her reason for boating and think about a motor cruiser.
Getting on the water for me is to have some "Me" time and switch off from normal life.
One should always be ready to change the destination if the situation changes, which is normally the weather.
I am slowly making a Yuloh based on a modified Japanese model, and as the transom on NOLI is narrower than PARADOX I don't think an outboard motor would fit on her transom anyway.

Jeff UK

---
From: Nels
To: paradoxbuilders@ yahoogroups. com
Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2008 4:07 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Alternative auxiliary power...

Sorry  the above is far from being factual, because it does not factor in the amount of energy the body uses to convert the beans into a form of energy it can actually utilize. The process of digestion and assimilation and distribution through the bloodstream uses considerable energy.

Also while rowing, the body is using energy to stay alive, like keep the lungs pumping, the heart beating the bioelectrical and biochemical processes that are constantly running the nervous system (and hopefully the brain) as well as the muscles as well as rebuilding new cells as well as  separating out and eliminating all the waste, including lactic acid from the muscle cells.

It may be using energy to produce sweat to keep the body te mperature in an extremely narrow temperature range for operating efficiency, producing melatonin to protect the skin from  the dangerous narrow band of rays of the sun, and even keeping your hair growing to protect you from bugs:-) Some foods actually use more energy to eliminate than what they produce.  And not just Chinese food either:-)

Of course the human body, like a battery has energy storage capacity in the form of blood glucose and fat, but these reserves take energy to get them flowing into the system as well. And like a deep cycle storage battery you can do serious damage if you run it down too far.

By camparison a small 4-stroke outboard like Bill uses, together with 5 liters of gas has an order of magnitude greater amount of potential energy per pound and is probably far more simple to get up and running (Usually) than Bill.

Also if you take the combined weight and expense of two batteries, solar panels, wind generator, a trolling motor, and all the wires and connectors that go with it - you will go far further, faster with the equivalent weight in a small gas outboard and fuel and it will cost considerably less, and is a lot easier to set up.

Now if you add a gas/petrol gen-set, things get really messy as you have to carry gas/petrol and eliminate CO fumes, as well as potentially hydrogen off-gassing from the batteries.

Solar panels are notoriously optimistic in their generating claims, and along with the wind generator are affected by the sails. Wind generators hardly ever work in marinas which by design are in sheltered areas and solar panels love to collect a coating of dust and salt.

However - don't let my words deter anyone from trying!

Nels

---
From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: N/A
Subject: N/A

I have been very much on the fringe lately, and am very behind on what people are talking about. I have a fair amount of experience cruising in boats with no engine, in complex waters, in my case BC waters both inside and outside. The most difficult times were when there was little or no wind, like much of the summer. In light conditions one must rethink the time-distance destination thing. You might have to move in towards a shallow exposed bit of shore to anchor for a few hours till the tide changes, or get under way at 3 AM to catch a tide somewhere. Its not actually difficult but it is a complete change of the pace of life. It normally takes me three or four days to make the switch, even though I have experience getting to that place. When you really find the rhythm it is almost a mystical experience. One interresting side effect is I get more and better rest. When there is wind you are far less affected by tides and currents. It might be a good idea to carry on an make use of a fair wind. I'd normally carry on longer and get further even with a contrary wind. Engines are really necessary when there are finite limits to your available time. Without the engine you cruising/sailing ground is very restricted. Engines do extend the cruising and are a really serious benefit when things go bad For me having an engine at least partially depends on my intended use of the boat and the whether the added complication and space lost is worth it. In a micro-cruiser, probably not.