From: "openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2008 16:39:07 +0100
Subject: Re: How to attach an anchor to Paradox

Last year on microcruising I asked for advice how to anchor a Paradox, and was told to have a line at the bow which gets tied to the anchor rode and takes the load. The remaining part of the anchor rode is led back where I can get at it without foredeck acrobatics.

Looking at the bow, I now wonder about the best way to attach that secondary line. I don't know whether the cleats are intended to take the strain, and I worry about chafe where the line would lead over the deck. Derek also put a loop through a hole in the bow. I am not sure that is suitable, because the edges of the hole are relatively sharp compared to the line diameter, so I worry about chafe again. It occurred to me that the simplest solution would be to put a big U-bolt through the stem. That piece of wood looks quite chunky. My first question is whether I should still reinforce the stem if I go for a U-bolt.

I have thought of two more alternatives: One is to put some thick plywood over the hole through the bow, so that I can have a nicely rounded exit for the loop.

The other is to get a really chunky D-ring, like those used on safety harnesses, and laminate that to the bow. That would spread the load out very nicely.

The U-bolt needs the least work, and as I have little time before my last opportunity for a holiday this year, it's my preferred option if it is structurally good enough. Can anyone comment on that?

The cleats should be plenty strong enough if built to plan.

I have a short length of hose pipe sleeved over the rope where it comes over the edge of the deck. Using this I have had no problem with chafe. My cleats have a hole through between the bolts. I led my rope from the stern, through the hole, through the other cleat, and back to the stern. Thus I have a bow rope down each side. I put a stopper knot between the cleats so the rope doesn't run through if both ends are un-attached.

The stem block varies from 3 inches deep at the deck to 4 inches deep about 2/3 of the way down, so it shouldn't need any further reinforcing. The problem is finding a U bolt with long enough legs.

That hole in the stem is gasping for an enormous shackle to be screwed though it.


Hoping for calm nights

Al  
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>