From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 3 Aug 2008 12:14:51 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Water tanks..again..

Honestly it is because I am a little leery of drinking water from the epoxied tanks even though I will follow all the directions exactly for making them per Don Elliots book.  I have read all the documentation I can find on drinking this water and am satisfied that it would be safe. (well as safe as any water can be these days..sigh)  However it is an emotional thing and I would feel better if I only drank this water in a real emergency.  Funny the thought of cooking with it does not bother me in the least.  Purely emotional, human brain thing.

From: BllFs6@aol.com <BllFs6@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 3 Aug 2008 12:08:00
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Water tanks..again..

May I ask...

Why do you want to do this?

Is it because you dont want to drink nasty tank water...

or is it because you are afraid the tank may leak and/or contaminate your whole water supply?

take care

Blll

From: Gene Tehansky <goldranger02-boats@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 3 Aug 2008 1:34 pm
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Water tanks..again..

Rod,
The bags sound good but would be no guarantee that water bag leakage 
or water coming in the hatch would not get into the void around the 
bag. This would need to be dried out regularly.

Sincerely,
Gene T.

Rod,
I plan on building my paradox design exactly as per plan. Useing Xxx Xxxxxxx book. However, with the water tanks I will build them as plan for a back-up system, but I was wondering if before I put the tops on, I could insert a custom made RV plastic(whatever they use) fresh water tank in each area. I have seen some small Rv's with several small water tanks place through-out and was wondering if anyone has tried this. I think they can be custom ordered inexpensivly. Or what about Fresh water bladder bags as some boats use in hulls... has someone experimented or tried these for a Paradox? If I place them in that same location as original plans and make epoxy tanks as well per plan then if I get a leak in the Rv tank or bladder bag all is contained within original tanks. Would like Pros and cons feed back on this.

Thanks,
Rod

It's time to go back to school! Get the latest trends and gadgets that make the grade on AOL Shopping.