From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2008 19:25:19 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: It begins

You know.... I know you are right. I am not new to wood-work, but after reading the epoxy book and then googling some more I have been thinking this is a whole diffirent thing. I mean if an illusion falls apart the audience laughs.... boat falls apart..... 

I haven't made a decision .. but will more than likely begin cutting all parts for paradox while I build a PD Racer or even Harley's 1 plywood 8' sailboat (not sure about this one), in order to practice the epoxy techniques.... that and the glassing are the only things that worry me about this project. Also I could work on the yulah,mast and such while I finish learning to epoxy on the smaller project. There is so much to do on the Paradox I can keep busy for awhile without epoxy.

From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2008 12:33:01 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: It begins

Build the PDR, it will give you an opportunity to learn how to use the epoxies and other techniques that you'll use on your Paradox.

Better to serve your boat building apprenticeship on your Duck than your Paradox.

Just a Thought ... Denny ...

From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2008 12:19:49 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: It begins

Thank-you this information is helpful. I managed to find the epoxy part of Don Elliots book and it explained alot more to me as well. I think I can handle it if I go slow. I know I am fooling myself badly as to build time involved... it's on purpose. I also have a strange feeling I will be buying something cheap to fill space or .. more likely build a PD racer over a week or so. I have an obsessive nature when it comes to projects and such... when I was learning sleight of hand it was not unknown for me to stay up 2 or 3 days straight when attempting a new move. Most nights I would get 3 or 4 hrs. of sleep. I am going to have alot of time on my hands until spring. This is great as my wife (live-in girlfriend of 14 yrs.) knows me well and gives me the time I need. No children and part-time self employed. (window cleaning business) I am older now and will not stay up 2 or 3 days like a mad man anymore, but I'm sure once I begin... well... ummm I began already... It will consume my waking hours until it is done.

Thank-you again on your epoxy info,
best regards,
Rod

From: joe_mapango <ccurtis-keyword-sailboat.a927b9@mval.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2008 11:54:03 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: It begins


I'm going to wish you luck, because you'll really need it to get into the water before the new year. Not that it can't be done, but most peoples realities just don't allow it. I started to build my (non paradox) boat two years ago, and I "might" get it into the water this year, a big might. Ultimately I bought a boat just to have something to sail

Anyway, for what it's worth, here are some things I learned (the hard way) and here is some generic advice.

Don't get too obsessed with buying system3 or any other brand of epoxy. ALL epoxy comes from two or three major chemical distributors in the US. It's generally very close in composition, if not exactly the same stuff. I buy from a polymerproducts company out of California, on ebay. I chose them because shipping is cheap to me, and their prices are good (less than 50 per gallon delivered).

I first started buying the "thixotropic" stuff. Everyone sells pre thickened epoxy. Sounds nice, but it ends up being a pain to work with. I learned that (for me) what works best is to use unthickened paint-able epoxy, and mix it up for each job exactly how you need it for the task. ALWAYS mix up the epoxy first, then add your "additives". Buy ALL the epoxy stuff you need first. Buy plenty of disposable gloves, masks, tongue depressors, mixing cups, mixing sticks first. Epoxy is nasty stuff to work with, I find it the most annoying part of boat building. I'm building a stitch and glue boat. I loved working with the wood, but now I'm working with the epoxy and it's a drag. My next boat will NOT be a SnG design.

Pace yourself. The Paradox is a small boat, but very complex, much more so than the vast majority of small boats. It's gonna take a looong time.

Good luck on your build.

Chris Curtis