From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 8 Aug 2008 17:59:48 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: It begins

It's been awhile since I saw Johanna... she's looking great man. Thanks for the beam info.. it helps alot. I really didn't know what length to cut them all at before lamination. Funny... I went back and looked at the plans after tearing my hair out all morning and the answers starting popping off the page. Just needed a break from it I guess..... I also didn't know I could use plywood... now what am I gonna do with all this nice mahogony? lmao

From: Pete <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Friday, August 8, 2008, 3:21 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: It begins

Rodney,
I made all my beams, deck and cabin, from 9mm ply.
For the deck beams I just ripped the ply to the correct width along the full length of the sheet. These strips were then cut in half to make two equal length strips. That would make the beams aprox 1210 mm. The longest beam needs to be about 1190mm so there's plenty to play with. You could use less wood by building the beams closer to size but the saving in wood and epoxy would be miniscule and a lot more effort for nothing. I can however measure all the beams if you want in the morning.

There are 7 deck beams, and I used 5 laminates per beam. That's 35 pieces you need for the deck beams alone.

The cabin beams i also made from 9mm ply. I think there are 10 (I can check tomorrow) and nearly everyone is a different height or width ( I have a drawing of them all I can dig out) I''ve made them all 900mm long.

All this uses up a surprising amount of ply and in fact I bought 2 extra sheets of 9mm for this and other bits like lazarette bins etc.

They're all glued with epoxy using the two step process:
Wet out both glue surfaces with unthickened epoxy.
Allow to soak in and mix up your thikened epoxy(I used mostly cabosil and a little cellulose fibre).
Butter on the thickened epoxy to one surface and clamp until squeeze out occurs. Don't overclamp. 
Leave for 24 hours to cure.
Repeat x times....

Cheers
Pete
http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/