From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 26 Aug 2008 17:23:02 -0000
Subject: Force 8 gale


I've been the crew on a 40' yacht for the past 3 weeks cruising the Bay of Biscay and the English Channel. When 130 miles offshore we encountered a gale which required us to heave-to with the foresail aback and a reefed mainsail. The whole experience was gruelling. Unlike Paradox there was no protection for the crew when handling the boat from the cockpit. Waterproof clothing, life jackets and harnesses had to be worn; needless to say the crew got cold and wet despite wearing the 'oilies'.

I tried to imagine how Paradox would fair under the same conditions. It would have been a rough ride, but no worse than the 40 footer and a lot drier and warmer. I believe Paradox would have best met those conditions by lying a-hull, almost beam on to the breaking waves; her rudder would have been raised and her rig securely tied in the stowage position on her port side; therefore best to have the wind from the starboard side. She would most likely make way to leeward, while slightly forereaching, but I believe she would have risen to the breaking water and moved sideways with the least resistance. I think unshipping the mast before the gale would not have been feasible and I doubt there would be any advantage in stowing it over the rig on the port side; indeed, it would have created more opportunity for the waves to 'grab' the boat. Paradox was designed with a short mast for this sort of scenario.

Your thoughts, especially from those with experience of riding out gales at sea.

Incidentally, the old wooden boat sprang a leak which at first we could not overcome by pumping with the electric and hand pumps, but by tacking plywood with mastic over the worst area, we were spared taking to the liferaft! During the same gale the tiller fitting to the rudder failed, but we were able to repair it. Hence make sure when you go to sea you have a tool box and bosun's chest of goodies.

Bill.