From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 5 Sep 2008 22:50:54 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Topping Lift

Steve,

Good Luck on your sail. I wish I thought I could do this part successfully.... but the price to have them do it is not much more. I will need to decide as to old or new sail plan... as Nels has stated there are some trade offs. I agree with keeping it simple and can appreciate the old sail plan as there are less things to go wrong. A shorter boom sounded better for awhile and I almost ordered the new plan until I looked at the difference in size and realized the new sail boom is not that much shorter than the old. I do like the price difference though. Heh.. I guess I got awhile to chew this one over. Finally after visiting 5 lumber yards over the last month I have found one with the "good stuff".
 
Rod

From: Stephen Yahn <yahns@wavecable.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 5 Sep 2008 20:35:40 -0700
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Topping Lift

Nels,

I have this strange need or challenge to furl the sail like Matt does. Without a topping lift. And besides I have now already put in my order to Sailrite for the OLD sail, 100 sq ft. I called sailrite and talked to Mr. Jeff Frank. He was very helpfull and easy to talk too. He is the guy who designs the sail and builds the kit and writes the instructions package which comes with the kit for my particular sail. I asked about the thread to use and he told me that the proper thread comes in the kit. And also plenty of extra bits of cloth so as to let me adjust the proper thread tension in my machine. By the way I discovered some Sailrite tutorials on YouTube on how to use their kits. The panels are cutout with computer control to get the proper broadseaming and draft for the sail shape. Also the computer puts lines on the edges of the panels to line up. Each panel is also labeled to show where it goes. And the same for the reinforcement patches. There is narrow double sided tape which holds everything together during the stitching. My kit was $309 and shipping was $28. So, we will see when it gets here. About the topping lift. If I fail my challenge I can still add the topping lift later, I'm sure. Good Luck, Steve Yahn