From: openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 11 Sep 2008 11:42:54 +0100
Subject: Re: Paradox inverted?


Hi Alan,

After 6 seasons of sailing Little Jim I find it hard to envisage the 
circumstances that would result in a 180 degree inversion, unless you 
were on an extended off-shore trip where it was not possible to avoid 
the worst of the weather. On one of my recent trips we had a forecast 
of F8 but the worst discomfort I had was mild boredom as I spent the 
whole day dried out on the beach in the poring rain.

On my second coastal trip (see www.little.jim.freeuk.com and read the 
trip reports at the bottom of the index), due to inexperience, I got 
myself into a 90 degree knock-down situation. I had the hatch shut, 
but was wearing a safety harness, which was clipped on to the aft 
deck, so there was a couple of mm gap where the webbing strap 
prevented the hatch closing fully. A combination of wind and wave 
dumped Little Jim on its side and water came in through the gap. I 
got the sleeve of my jumper wet :-(

By the time I had realised what was going on Little Jim had had come 
back up and was sailing again. I suspect, from a distance, it would 
just look as if the boat had rolled a bit further than usual.

Internally there was little disruption. The kettle came off the 
cooker and all the loose items on the starboard forward shelf ended 
up either on the port window ledge or the port shelf or, for the only 
two items that were water sensitive, in the port bin. These then 
mixed intimately with the (estimated) 2 litres of water that had come 
in.

Apart from needing to dry my jumper and the inability to shave or 
make a phone call for the rest of the trip there was no further 
problem.

Interestingly, as much water seemed to come in under the front of the 
hatch as through the gap at the rear, though I didn't have the 
external seal at the front that is shown in the plans. (Note to self: 
build it like the plans show - you know nothing about boat design!)

The result of all this is that I have fitted a hard point inside for 
the harness (probably a bit over the top anyway) and have installed 
secure locations for everything that doesn't like being bounced or 
washed.

Oh, and I take the weather forecast more seriously too.


Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>