From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2008 08:06:11 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Anyone building a paradox

ya... ummm... forget the draft... man... im a newbie .. what makes u think I will worry about draft until I tear the bottom outta my first boat? hehehehehehehehe just kidding... 

What I meant was it was small for its capabilities and can be sailed from inside and reefed from inside and had the same type of stability.... I agree it is close but no cigar. The trailerablility of the swaggie just sux. Still I would like one for a good long long cruise offshore.

Thx,
Rod


From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wednesday, September 17, 2008, 2:57 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Anyone building a paradox







I'm sorry Rod but SWAGGIE is nothing like a PARADOX. 
It is a totally different beast.
2'-8" draught and weighing in at over 4000 lbs, it is a cruising boat in the traditional sense.
Although PARADOX is heavy for its size, it has a draught of only 9".

An 18' version could, if drawn from scratch, have a draught of about 10" and weigh about 2400 lbs, maybe less.
Because of it's designed cruising style the headroom would be not much more than its smaller brother/sister.

99% of the members to the PARADOX and Microcruising sites would like nothing more than to go cruising for a week or two, all with in easy reach of civilization. Probably spending no more than a couple of nights moored in isolation.
Matt designed PARADOX to be away, unsupported, for up to two months.
Al and Bill on their recent long cruise were always in touch with the locals except for one or two exceptions, so I will ask this of them and other owners of Paradox's.

Did you feel that there was just enough storage room on your PARADOX or, that you felt you could have done with less, i.e., that you wished that you had not taken something's because it or they were never used. Like too much food or water.


Jeff UK



From: Rodney Cannon 
To: paradoxbuilders@ yahoogroups. com 
Sent: Tuesday, September 16, 2008 3:48 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Anyone building a paradox









There is one other boat that is very similiar to Paradox.... much bigger 18 feet but has all the other traits except a water supply system that is refreshed by rain. Its call a "Swaggie" by John Welsford. http://www.duckwork sbbs.com/ plans/jw/ swaggie/index. htm

There is also a modified bigger version of paradox drawn out by somebody in this forum and the info is in the files section. Personally rather than alter the paradox design I would seriously look at the Swaggie. I was thinkin of building one in a few years to just up and take off in, no particular port in mind.

Good luck man,
Rod


From: wyliewesty <wyliewesty@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@ yahoogroups. com
Date: Tuesday, September 16, 2008, 7:09 AM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Anyone building a paradox




Pete, I spent alot of time looking thru your build site and really enjoyed all the pics. Its great to see you have gotten so much of it completed. I need to visit your area some day to make the bike trip to the pub, that must have been great everyone ridding back home with a buzz and feeling good. Pete do you have any long distance trips in mind for this boat when your done? Its great to read the stories of others who are able to take there little boats on long trips hope to be reading about your adventures soon.
I need to start building my paradox this year I waited a couple of years hoping someone else would build a larger version of paradox but looks like I will be building her stock and will work on gaining more interior room by reducing my own size, eating better and drinking less beer. Im 6'4 and 260# so you can see my concern on interior size but paradox is such a unique boat and for me it has a feeling no other boat brings so I dont have a choice.

Regards,
Texas Bill


SPAMfighter has removed 95890 spam emails to date.
Try SPAMfighter for free now!