From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
Date: Sat, 20 Sep 2008 15:29:59 -0000
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Progress

Thank you Steve.

You've some interesting modifications.  I particularly would like some feedback on how the tack strop arrangement performs in practice.

Another feature is your ballast which appears to be lead sheeting laid internally on the bottom of the boat.  When sailing to windward, Paradox sails on her leeward chine, which combined with the chine runner becomes a very effective keel, but then the genius of Matt's arrangement for lead ballast comes into play, because the windward ballast has leverage power.

It looks as though 'Ironsides' does not have the lower side bins for storage which will give extra room inside, but I find mine on 'Faith' really useful.  I use them for stowing heavy items like bottles of squash, lemonade, emergency flares, Reed's Nautical Almanac etc.

I keep my outboard on the transom bracket when I'm aboard and I put it in the cabin when my boat is on her mooring.  Seeing you have ample space in the cabin will you have an arrangement for stowing the motor there when the boat is sailing?

Two points occur to me about the arrangement for mounting your engine:

(1) If you use the sliding mount on the port side, the engine exhaust and the prop may be too low in the water; also it looks as though the engine will be very close to the water, in which case it could get flooded.  I doubt it could remain there when you are sailing, because the boat will occasionally heel enough to bring her gunwale to the water's surface - especially in gusty conditions.

(2)  If you use the sponson arrangement for mounting the engine, I think it could only be satisfactory when the conditions are relatively calm, because in more lively conditions it would be caught by the waves so that water and spray would be thrown all over the place.  You would also have to find somewhere to store the sponson when it is not being used.

I find that my Honda 2.3 works very well on a transom lifting bracket; the only reservation I have is re-fuelling the tank when underway, which for a day on the water is never necessary.

Cheers,
Bill.