From: "Stephen Yahn" <yahns@wavecable.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 20 Sep 2008 21:50:42 -0000
Subject: Re: Progress

Thanks Bill for your helpfull comments. 

I will try to tell you my thinking. First the ballast. What you see in the picture is not sheet lead. It is bricks cast from concrete. There are 79 of them at 5 pounds apiece. They will next have some wood packing/wedges cut so as to limit there shifting about. The cabin sole will be well screwed down over this to secure them well. They cost me $20.00 at the garden store. Lead blocks/scrap is too expensive for my budget right now, at $1.00 a pound. The tire stores have stopped giving it away(environmentalism). These concrete bricks, in my opinion, have the same avg. center of gravity as Matt's design but not the same gyrational enertia. Mine is less, therefore the rolling motion will be faster.  I'll learn to live with it, at first anyway. Lead billets can be changed out later. I do have 150 pounds of lead billets from another boat project. I may use/shift these to balance the trim of the boat.

As to the engine.
I remember something Al said which impressed me. It was that he made a special effort to plan ahead and avoid the need of engines. I aim to discover the application of that effort too. As an example, The Puget Sound were I live and play has 12 foot tides. And it has well defined currents, mapped out in current charts, to aid in passages. With very little effort on my part. I do have a 2 HP honda if it must be used.

The sponson idea was for those particular trips where there must be lots of unavoidable motoring and little sailing. There it would shine. Example, the Willamet river in Oregon with it's high banks. And lake Powell in Arizona. I don't intend it to be permanent. How to store the engine and or sponson will need to wait until I have more experience with this boat. I have noticed that this particular model outboard engine tends to dribble no gasoline at all when the vent plug is screwed down tight. Very nice.

As for general storage the boat has gobs of storage still left all over. I intend later to add some cloth versions of the side bins. But only after I find they are actually needed. I also want as little stuff/junk as possible. Just like when I'm carring it on my back when climbing and hiking. Or Kayaking. Example, using an MP3 player instead of a CD Player. I also at this point want to avoid a wetcell 12 volt battery as Matt designed in. Having 200 AMPS aboard such a tiny combustable cucoon gives me pause. For just one LED masthead light smaller replacable batteries suit me better. No solar panals needed either. More simple again. And it fits my budget too, I must admit. 

I don't know exactly how the tackstrop will work as I have never used one, and only have the pictures of it, yours included, thanks. It may be another example of being too clever for my own good. There just seemed to be something "makeshift" about it as designed on the drawings.   

It's raining now. I may start sewing the sail kit. Good luck, Steve Yahn