From: "David Beard" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: furling system
Date: Tue, 2 Jul 2002 18:03:44 -0500

Thanks Glen, the info will save a lot of trial and error.

Thanks
David

Hi David,

I made a strap with an eye on each and a hole in the middle. I attached the main sheet to the bottom hole, mounted the strap to the boom end using the middle hole and tied the 1/8' topping lift to the top of the strap. From there it goes to the mast head where I attached a harkin bullet block. it falls from the block to about three ft from the deck where a loop is tied. The bitter end (tail) is then taken back up to a point about 5/6 feet above deck and thru another bullet block mounted to the forward face of the mast, it falls from there to the furling axle where I brazed a brass sail grommet on and is tied off. Now I tied another line of 1/4" to the loop and after a little adjusting of both the forward and aft lift lines the boom would rise at both ends by pulling on the one 1/4" line. I install a temporary cleat to secure the down haul line to until I could test every thing. Now that I know it works well I will someday get around to running it into the cabin so I wont have to open the hatch in foul weather to use the topping lift. After the sail is furled you slack off on the topping lift and guide the sail into it's storage position. When ready to make sail a pull on the topping lift will raise it to just above the coach roof where you can hoist it when your ready. You do have to make sure that the aft end of the yard doesn't slip behind the topping lift until you get about 1/4 of the sail unrolled. Once hoisted, slack off the topping lift so it wont interfere with the set of the sail. Also the strap must be very strong to avoid bending inward and fouling the boom when furling up or down. I went thru three before getting it right. The blocks are Harkin #021 dinghy blocks, the boom end strap was made from a stainless tang 6" X 1" West marine part# 129544. Hope this helps, sorry to be so long winded.

Tailwinds
Glen

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.