From: Nels <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 22 Sep 2008 15:25:58 -0000
Subject: Sail Handling

Thanks Bill,

Yes I plan to install such a topping lift set-up. Also I am looking at extending the cabin on Robbsboat forward so as to look much like Paradox's in profile. This would give more support length on the top for the lowered sail, more sitting space below and more shelter for two. Also I plan to install toe-rails along the outer edges. So one goes forward along the opposite side of where the sail is when lowered. (Carefully)

My present boat has no side decks and the raised deck is slanted on each side with toe-rails along the outer edge and that presents no special challenge in going forward. Not that one has to go forward except when beaching or docking. I have a system to deploy and retrieve a bow anchor without going forward. (Hopefully)

I am now planning to go with the standard leeboard - at Robb's recommendation. When it is fully raised, a person might be able to use it as a walkway forward as well. Another option is to have a full length Birdwatcher "Slot top" if I can figure out a way to close it up quickly and tightly.

Sven Yrvind has no side decks on his latest build as far as I can tell. It fact the hull looks quite similar to a Bolger Micro. And he explains the advantages of this design in that one can sit sideways when below and use ones bulk as shiftable ballast. You can lean back at a more comfortable position than in a boat with side decks. Of course no room for side bins, but I want it capable of sleeping two occasionally.

http://www.yrvind.com/present_project.html

As you know I am also interested in looking at the junk rig, which is pretty cheap and easy to make using polytarp.

http://duckworksmagazine.com/06/howto/junk/index.htm

http://www.duckworksmagazine.com/06/howto/junkrig/index.htm

But my intended use for Robbsboat is as an "extend the season canoe" in protected water. Yesterday we got to 24 today it is overcast and 11 with showers.

Nels