From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 24 Sep 2008 19:49:54 -0000
Subject: Re: Ironside revisions and progress

Everything works well on 'Faith'.  Maintaining her is a doddle; after two seasons I've only added a coat of varnish to her mast - even the tack strop is hardly worn.  I used a copper/epoxy based leaching antifouling which has prevented any growth whatsoever from adhering to her last season and between April and September this year while she has been exposed to seawater most of that time.

I've been happy with the original design, except I changed the floorboards so that they can be lifted and moved to one side or forward.  This means I can get at the storage compartments easily while the seat is in place.  It also means sand or gravel can not be trapped by the side hinges, since they are no longer needed.  I think this arrangement is better than having the standard hinged floorboards.

The other change I made from the standard boat was to do away with the foam buoyancy lining, but if the conditions are exceptionally cold I find a little condensation forms in the bilge - I'm talking about half a teacup over a period of 24 hours.  This happened at Sovereign Yacht Haven when the deck was coated with snow and ice,  but the drip tray around the base of the windows worked well.

There's nothing else I would change.  She's a fantastic little boat.  The more I sail her, the more I appreciate her special attributes, such as being able to sail her from inside while completely protected from the elements - this is tops for me.  She is superp for beaching and she can be sailed in very shallow water.  Her stability gives one a feeling of security, and her self-righting characteristic gives assurance that all will be well.  She magically holds her course when sheeted correctly, and although I have installed an Autohelm I seldom use it.

I named my boat 'Faith', and I have faith in her that she will look after me.

Bill.
http://www.paradox-uk.co.uk