From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 29 Sep 2008 11:14:08 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: To Hawaii?

Thank-you,

Stephen Yahn, you and me agree that I am far, far ready from such a trip... but I, despite my ramblings, do have somewhat of a sound mind and also a yearning for adventure and knowledge. I expect that it won't take that long for me to learn what I need to know to make such a trip. I also know that to prepare for it will take much more practice at sea. I took the suggestion that I should seek experiance on the sea and have made a friend with a boat and have made some small day trips. (not to Catalina Island yet!) I have found that I have no problems with the motion of the boat and really enjoy the work involved in moving about the boat when under way.

I do understand that while the boat may be ready I am not. And I may find out in the preparation of such a voyage I lose my taste for it. BUT from where stand right now, (about to be free of all prior life obligations, peaceful parting of a 15 yr. relationship) it sure looks like a Good Time. No.... I am sure I am not ready now ... was just asking you guys if you thought the boat would make it. Hell, I start my sailing classes in Oct. so I may decided to find someone going and crew just for the experiance.. Stephen mentioned that.... among others to me in an earlier post... as I bang and cut fingers and get epoxy everywhere but were it should be, this option looks better and better. (but this is soooo much fun!!)

Anyways I will finish the boat and then worry about it... thanx to all for listening to my ramblings.

Forty-two with too much time on my hands,
Rod


From: <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, September 29, 2008, 1:15 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] To Hawaii?



On 28 Sep 2008 at 22:12, rdnycannon wrote:

Wow... I just made two life decisions based on extreme thought over the last few weeks. One of these decisions has no place on this forum (economy has forced me back into performing magic for a living), but I thought somebody out there may find the 2nd decision interesting. I have decided to go ahead and definitely plan on taking my paradox on a trip to Hawaii. I will try to complete her by 2010 for a trial run to the Bahamas but if I miss the dead-line there I will leave A.S.A.P for Hawaii. I'm going anyway, crazy fool that I am, but I would not mind a show of hands of the people here who believe a "properly built to plans" paradox is capable of such a trip. I am very serious and would only decide against this if enough of the "experts" here were against it. So from Marina Del Rey, CA. to Honolulu in a paradox, what do u think?

Thanks for any input as I will give all thoughts consideration,
Rod 

Hi Rod,

My first thought was that, given the right conditions, the boat would have no problems with that trip, it is the skipper that is the weak link.
The fact that you are asking the question suggests that you are not ready to go.
Build the boat, make a few short cruises, make a few longer cruises and soon you will know the answer for yourself.
Also, try reading a few books by people who have made long ocean crossings in small boats. Most of them seem to have had a miserable time of it.
Hoping for calm nights
Al, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com>