From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 3 Oct 2008 08:21:32 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Little Jim, a non-standard Paradox

Wow... haven't started the yulah yet... havta wait til Monday. But I am glad I read this post cause when I looked at the plans I assumed I was reading them wrong and the flat part of the blade was supposed to go vertical to the water. This is a really weird way to think of a paddle working. Thanks for the explanation.
 
Rod


From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, October 2, 2008, 9:17 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Little Jim, a non-standard Paradox

Hello,

The curvature of the yuloh is what makes it twist into the correct attitude at the end of each stroke. A traditional yuloh also had a rope from the end of the handle to the deck whch actually took most of the load. I believe Matt did not include the rope and perhaps with the small size of the Paradox it is not required. 
I have read the total curve should be between 7 and 10 degrees. I made up two yulohs years ago which confirms to me that angle seems about right. My yulohs worked well, on two very different displacement cruising boats. I would add though that a friend had a warped skulling oar which seemed to push at least as well with the added benefit that when let go the vertical blade dragged docilely behind the moving boat unlike the horizontal blade of the yuloh, which tried to plane sort of behind the boat. This is itself might not be that bad but trying to resume skulling/yulohing ,(getting the thing to dig into the water again) required a lot more effort.
JG

From: Nels <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Wednesday, October 1, 2008 4:09:59 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Little Jim, a non-standard Paradox

Correct me if I am wrong - which I often am - but is not the curvature in the yuloh to allow the user to scull from a comfortable position without the shaft being overly long?

So each one should be specifically designed to suit the particular boat and comfortable working position of the sculler?

Nels