From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: rudder blade
Date: Sun, 5 Oct 2008 11:50:41 -0700 (PDT)

Ok... thanks for this... never woulda thought of blowing this section up for a template.=A0 Now last question for awhile as I now have enough answers to work some more........ What the heck is a DADO?=A0 On DWG #8 and in other places on the plans Matt mentions dados in places like for the tank dividers.=A0 What does he mean here?
=A0
Many thanks again,
Rod


From: <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] rudder blade
Date: Sun, 5 Oct 2008 11:32:00

On 5 Oct 2008 at 18:01, rdnycannon wrote:

In the files section of this forum there is a folder called "rudder
blade". I think the pictures of this rudder being leaded are for
Little Cruiser? Is this right? Dave B. has provided the pics and
they are alittle confusing to me as I don't know if this is for a
different boat or is it showing an alternative method of putting lead
in the blade for a paradox? The method and placement seem to be
different then in the plans and illustrations in Don's manual. 

I think it is probably LC's rudder, it is certainly not off a 
Paradox.

Also in putting the proper aerofoil onto the rudder blade I noticed
the dimensions given for the smaller end (the end with the lead) is
6mm. However there are no dimensions given for the end where the
radius begins. (opposite small end) And do I only shape the blade to
the waterline? Also do I shape the lead on the smaller edge down to
6mm? I "think" I know some of the answers here but I would like to
know for sure. 

You could do worse than photocopy the section shown up to full size 
and make some cardboard templates. For some reason aerofoils have 
less drag with a square trailing edge rather than coming to a sharp 
edge (much more robust as well).

The blade needs to be flat where it rubs against the stock so shape 
that side as far as you can then blend it into the flat face. On the 
outside shape to above the water-line, but leave the radius, where 
the groove for the uphaul is, at full thickness. Again make a smooth 
blend from one shape to the other.

After a couple of seasons I found the leading edge of the rudder was 
showing signs of wear where it rubs on the bottom if you don't haul 
it up soon enough. I have seen, on Duckworks, the suggestion that a 
groove in the leading edge filled with a length of dacron rope soaked 
in epoxy solves this. However my solution was to split a length of 
copper water pipe and hammer this to shape round the leading edge and 
bottom, bonding with epoxy. After 3 seasons it is showing no signs of 
damage, though the paint keeps getting rubbed off.

Hoping for calm nights

Al, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com>