From: "Jim Baltaxe" <jim.baltaxe@vuw.ac.nz>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Thu, 16 Oct 2008 17:02:19 +1300
Subject: Re: Ironsides Floats

Hi Stephen
 
The photos look marvellous as does the boat! Best was the great big grin in the very last photo. The absolute feeling of satisfaction with a beautiful job well done must be wonderful.
 
I do have one question in particular. The tack strop looks very well designed and I know that you had a concern about how well the more rigid design will work in practice. Please let us know how it does. If it is successful, as it probably will be, could you post a detailed drawing of it to be incorporated into the plans? Perhps you already have and I've missed it or just forgotten about it.
 
Many happy hours and miles under the keel - oops, chine runners.

Enjoy 
Jim Baltaxe

They said, get a life. I looked on TradeMe but I couldn't find one. 

From: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
To: undisclosed-recipients:;
Date: Thu, 16 Oct 2008 05:50:40 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Ironsides Floats

Thanks John. They are up now. Steve Yahn
	

	

	

	

From: Stephen Yahn <yahns@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Wednesday, October 15, 2008 5:52:24 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Ironsides Floats


I launched Ironsides today and all went well. The ballast may not have been enough ( only 395 lbs total ) but for the wind I had it was good. The trailer behaved well too. My skill at useing the roller reefing and topping lift will come with time. I had a couple minutes of using the yuloh. I'll need more time for that too. The boat did everything a good sailboat should do. The tacks went all the way around nicly. I was most struck by the freedom of not holding on to a tiller continuously. I could go for good long periods without touching the helm. Freedom! The friction of the tiller rope was loose too. I'm surprised it steered this way. I'm curious to see how she does in stronger winds too. There was also a nice gurgling sound from the choppy water against the hull. After about an hour of sailing, dark clouds rolled in and the wind seemed to fall to nothing. Retrieving the boat on to the trailer was not bad. I must make a better system of rigging out the boat fenders. Some small eyes and hooks maybe. I'll put up some photos in the gallery under Ironsides. Today Ironsides was successful and I'm happy. Steve Yahn

	

	 

