From: "Stephen Yahn" <yahns@wavecable.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 16 Oct 2008 21:27:13 -0000
Subject: Re: Ironsides Floats

Thank you Dennis. Steve Y

Congratulations on the build Steve!

Very, very, very nice ...

Denny ...

Thank you Al. I remembered reading about the nice rudder control comments by you and the others. It was still so new to see it for myself. I have used some of your recommendations too. My wife likes the boat so far. She was surprised at how tiny the boat seems on the outside and how roomy it seems inside. Sleeping in the boat will come later. Snoring (mine)is more likely to make trouble than lack of space. The cabin top eyes would be free of conflict with the sail/yuloh. I want to thank you for helping me during the build. This group is a wonderful aid to the fun of the boat. Best regards to all.

--- In paradoxbuilders@ yahoogroups. com, "" <openboat@ .> wrote:

On 16 Oct 2008 at 0:52, Stephen Yahn wrote:

> I launched Ironsides today and all went well. The ballast may not 
have been enough (only 395 lbs total) but for the wind I had it was good. The trailer behaved well too. My skill at using the roller reefing and topping lift will come with time. I had a couple minutes of using the yuloh. I'll need more time for that too. The boat did everything a good sailboat should do. The tacks went all the way around nicely. I was most struck by the freedom of not holding on to a tiller continuously. I could go for good long periods without touching the helm. Freedom! The friction of the tiller rope was loose too. I'm surprised it steered this way. I'm curious to see how she does in stronger winds too. There was also a nice gurgling sound from the choppy water against the hull. After about an hour of sailing, dark clouds rolled in and the wind seemed to fall to nothing. Retrieving the boat on to the trailer was not bad. I must make a better system of rigging out the boat fenders. Some small eyes and hooks maybe. I'll put up some photos in the gallery under Ironsides. Today Ironsides was successful and I'm happy. 

Steve Yahn