From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Oct 2008 09:46:01 +0100
Subject: Re: Ironsides Floats

Well done Stephen.

Its great to hear you are afloat, which is more than can be said for me. But I am getting there. The weather hear this year in the UK has been real crap, interspersed with bouts of sunshine during which was a magical cue for work to be dumped on me. Never when its raining. As I write, it is raining, cold and windy and I have just finished a commission, so have time to work on NOLI, but................ I will be looking forward to some sailing yarns from you soon if the weather has not broken in your neck of the woods : )

Take care.

Jeff UK


FROM: Stephen Yahn 
TO: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
SENT: Thursday, October 16, 2008 1:52 AM
SUBJECT: [paradoxbuilders] Ironsides Floats

I launched Ironsides today and all went well. The ballast may not have been enough (only 395 lbs total) but for the wind I had it was good. The trailer behaved well too. My skill at using the roller reefing and topping lift will come with time. I had a couple of minutes of using the yuloh. I'll need more time for that too. The boat did everything a good sailboat should do. The tacks went all the way around nicely. I was most struck by the freedom of not holding on to a tiller continuously. I could go for good long periods without touching the helm. Freedom! The friction of the tiller rope was loose too. I'm surprised it steered this way. I'm curious to see how she does in stronger winds too. There was also a nice gurgling sound from the choppy water against the hull. After about an hour of sailing, dark clouds rolled in and the wind seemed to fall to nothing. Retrieving the boat onto the trailer was not bad. I must make a better system of rigging out the boat fenders. Some small eyes and hooks maybe. I'll put up some photos in the gallery under Ironsides. Today Ironsides was successful and I'm happy.

Steve Yahn

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 5.5 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 99566 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message.