From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
Date: Tue, 21 Oct 2008 00:50:15 +0100
Subject: Re: Ironsides Floats

Hi Jim.

I had already thought of the Mirage Drive. In fact I have bought two of them(can't think why) from the States. Honestly!
But I think the Yuloh is the best way to go as one can stand up and get a better view.
The trunk for a MD would have to be above the waterline which would mean it would stick up above the cabin sole/floor.
I would not like to sleep with than thing stuck in my back.
It would have to be made water tight as well and have a plug fitted to make the hole flush with the bottom of the boat.
A yuloh is a lot cheaper than a MD as well.

Jeff UK


From: Stephen Yahn
Date: Tue, 21 October 2008 5:17 am
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Ironsides Floats

Jeff

I suspect we have the same weather. It rains frequently here, but not 
in great amounts. I have sometimes, because of the weather, wondered 
if there was a way to propel the boat from inside the cabin. Using 
the legs for power since they are big. A big slow turning propeller 
hung from the transome,(like an outboard motor). But how to link them 
together? Ropes? Hydraulics(with water)? Anything which is not 
greasy/oily. And somthing which can be removed and put away when not 
wanted. It is a hobby of mine to think this way. I have not done well 
on this challenge so far. Noli is interesting name. How did it named 
this?
Cheer, Steve Yahn


From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
Date: Thu, 16 October 2008 1:52 AM 
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Ironsides Floats

Well done Stephen.
Its great to hear you are afloat, which is more than can be said 
for me. But I am getting there.
The weather hear this year in the UK has been real crap, 
interspersed with bouts of sunshine during which was a magical cue 
for work to be dumped on me. Never when its raining.
As I write, it is raining, cold and windy and I have just finished 
a commission, so have time to work on NOLI, but................
I will be looking forward to some sailing yarns from you soon if 
the weather has not broken in your neck of the woods : )

Take care.
Jeff UK


From: “Stephen Yahn” 
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Ironsides Floats
Date: Thu, 16 October 2008, 12:50:17 pm
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

I launched Ironsides today and all went well. The ballast may not 
have been enough ( only 395 lbs total ) but for the wind I had it was 
good. 
The trailer behaved well too. My skill at useing the roller 
reefing and 
topping lift will come with time. I had a couple minutes of using 
the 
yuloh. I'll need more time for that too. The boat did everything 
a good 
sailboat should do. The tacks went all the way around nicly. I 
was most 
struck by the freedom of not holding on to a tiller continuously. 
I 
could go for good long periods without touching the helm. 
Freedom! The 
friction of the tiller rope was loose too. I'm surprised it 
steered 
this way. I'm curious to see how she does in stronger winds too. 
There 
was also a nice gurgling sound from the choppy water against the 
hull. 
After about an hour of sailing, dark clouds rolled in and the 
wind 
seemed to fall to nothing. Retrieving the boat on to the trailer 
was 
not bad. I must make a better system of rigging out the boat 
fenders. 
Some small eyes and hooks maybe. I'll put up some photos in the 
gallery 
under Ironsides. Today Ironsides was successful and I'm happy. 
Steve 
Yahn


----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 5.5 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 99639 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message