From: "barnacleid" <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 25 Oct 2008 15:05:45 -0000
Subject: Re: Practical Gadgeteering

Hi Steve,

I have uploaded a photo of Whisper's outboard when fully down. You can see it in the Whisper album. My bracket is slightly higher than his, which means I can motor with the engine fully down in water which is about 15 inches. Before beaching I invariably set the outboard in its tilted position.

Having experienced using an engine on Paradox, I would not be without one. I have the assurance that I can make up over some of the fierce tides here on the East Coast of England.

Regarding the smells you mentioned in a previous post. In actual fact, by using a four-stroke engine such as the Honda 2.3 which does not use oil, smells are almost non existent. There are arguments for and against using such an engine on a Paradox have been well aired in the past. Each must make his own choice. I'm pleased with mine.

For anyone who intends mounting an outboard on the port side of the transom, don't bother to build a boarding step, because it can't be used when the engine is mounted. Also do not put too much faith in using it to get back on board without the additional use of a loop of rope lower than it for the first foothold. I know through painful experience how hard it is to get back on-board by using the step. Because it is almost at water level you need to be a freak to place your foot on it and then grab the top of the rudder stock to hoist yourself aboard. I did it out of pure survival instinct. Do not underestimate the difficulty when water has soaked into your clothing which makes you a 'dead' weight when your body emerges from the water.

Bill.

Also there was something you said once about a plunging sound the water makes when your sleeping on the boat while afloat. In my mind I saw the boarding step plunging up and down as the swells lift and drop the stern of the boat. And also another reason. I have the idea that a ladder or a shelf to sit on when I'm swimming and climbing in and out of the water. It would go on the right side of the transome. I have not made it yet. Free diving is something I aim to get into someday.

Steve Yahn