From: Jeff <apcf14@dsl.pipex.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Cabin Top forward beam.
Date: Tue, 28 Oct 2008 12:40:00 -0000

This is how I tackled NOLI's cabin top. Sorry it may be a bit long winded.

On NOLI I decided to go down the route of an all plywood structure.
Not having enough timber for the frames or patience to shape them along with their joints, I looked into an all plywood version.
First I built up a lip, in ply, around the cockpit on three sides and shaped the outer edges roughly to the side and windscreen angles.
I lofted out the structure in profile 1/4 scale and expanded the sides to give their true shape, except I gave the top edge a straight line, which I could trim later.
Having cut out the sides from 1/2" ply to this drawing, I dry fitted them with screws to work out the final angle of the cockpit lip.
With the sides fitted at the right angle and braced, I then glue laminated ply to the correct curve for the windscreen. At the same time I did the same for the roof. I also cut out the rear infill panel.
I also fitted inside four pieces of 2x1 timbers, flush to the forward and aft edges of the sides.
The windscreen was laminated from two layers of ply while the roof from three, bent over formers and covered in one layer of glass cloth and PeelPly when cured on the inside surface only.
The roof was to fit between the hatch front opening forward to the windscreen so was made slightly longer to make allowance for adjustment and trimming.
With the sides and rear infill panel glued in position I used the now laminated windscreen panel to make a correct fit all round the front.
With the oversized ply windscreen clamped to these timbers and resting on the center of the deck it was easy to get the final rough shape of the deck contact line. 
This gave me about a 2" concave curve for which I had made an allowance for. The top edge was designed to have a straight developed edge.
With all the joints to my satifaction, the windscreen was glued in place.
Next the roof was placed on top of the sides, centred and slid forward. The forward edge was then rough fitted along with the top edges of the sides and the windscreen cut down flush with the roof.
Stepping back and looking at the boat from the side I realised that I did not like the look of the line of the roof. Although it looked fine on paper I felt it needed to be lower at the back, plus when I sat inside I thought the roof gave me more headroom than I needed so I clamped a batten about 1 1/2" lower at the back and 1" at the front to the side, studied it and went off to have lunch.
After lunch I came back, had another look, tweeked it down at the back by another 1/2", and attack both sides with a handsaw.
With the roof dry fitted I then marked out the windows, tweeking the lower line and the centre upright bar in relation to the hatch opening so it looked right to me when viewed from the side. I then copied this to the other side heavily in pencil.
With only one beam(made to fit the final roof curveature), in way of the front of the hatch opening, which was made fron 1/2" ply with a 1" timber doubler(not laminated) on edge, I dry fitted this in position and trimmed the roof to length. When fitted to my satisfaction I glued the roof to the sides and windscreen, filliting the joints inside and out.
I then glued in the roof beam. When cured I made two braces to go from the beam to the inside base of the sides. See photos.
After this the hatch combings were fitted and the rear opening cut in way of the wash boards. The whole assembly, excluding the inside roof and windscreen, was then covered in one layer of glass cloth inside and out(the window pencil lines showing through), trebled with strips on all joints. PeelPly was used again to get a good finish.
The windows were then cut out and finished. 
A brace forward to the windscreen has yet to be added, just for my peace of mind.