From: "mwatersworld" <mwatersworld@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 02 Dec 2008 23:12:27 -0000
Subject: Re: Calling all Paradox skippers: assessments?

Personal circumstances over the past couple of years have limited the amount of times I have sailed my Paradox "Raffles." The times I have sailed her the performance has always exceeded my expectations and I had a lot of fun with her. The best part is being able to sail in cold rainy weather that keeps the other boats at the dock. She is easy to rig, launch and sail. I built her in Los Angeles but she has since travelled to Nashville and now she is back on the West Coast in Portland. She will be moving again soon to the Bay Area where I am really looking forward to doing some good sailing on the Bay.

I only made a few modifications such as doing away with the water tanks, using steel ballast instead of toxic lead, doing away with the 'swim-step' on the rudder, and building a seat that elevates my butt to deck level but without compromising the doghouse with a companion way (this way I can still enjoy the cooling breeze on hot days). 

If I were to build again I would make the same adjustments to bulkhead number 2 as others have done and I would either do away with the side bins or build in some cabinets. I would also make the battery compartment easier to access - lifting a fifty pound battery into this tight space on your back requires quite a feat of agility.

I have since fitted an outboard, finding the sculling oar effective but difficult to use, particularly in anything but a dead calm.

As for size, I wouldn't change a thing but I am not a large person, only 5'10" 160 lbs. Those over 6' might want to give it a second thought. 

The only other comment that I would make for first time builders is that although a Paradox is a 14' 'box' boat do not assume that her construction will necessarily be simple. Other builders may disagree with me here, and obviously level of finish plays an important role, but even though I had built a few boats in the past I was still suprised by the level of complexity and detail involved. The build took me the best part of a year.

In sum she is a great boat and one that you can customize to your hearts content. I have recently build a self-steering wind vane (thanks to Glen) that I am looking forward to testing and will be making some fitted cushions for the sole. I don't think I will run out of projects any time soon.

Mark