From: Michael <macarmody@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 19 Dec 2008 11:23:36 -0000
Subject: Re: Regarding some of the mechanics of living and working on board a Paradox

Thanks for the prompt reply!
Regards.


From: "" <openboat@...>
Date: 19 Dec 2008 at 9:44
Subject: Re: Regarding some of the mechanics of living and working on board a Paradox

I'd like to ask questions on how people actually live on board a Paradox, also where people store and then retrieve items.
    
First, what anchors do people have and use? Where are they stored? To retrieve them, how difficult is access to various storage compartments? How do people place the anchor overboard? What on deck attachment do people use for anchor lines, fore and aft?

Being left handed I have my cooker on the port side. My main anchor is a 5kg Bruce. It is stored on the starboard side behind bulkhead 4 where it is always ready to lift out and chuck overboard. My second anchor is a 10 lb Fishermans which is stored in the stbd floor locker. I have modified the lid of the locker so it will clear the seat when opening. I have a third anchor, a folding grapnel, which is useful for hooking onto a river bank or for a short stay on the beach. This fits in a length of drain pipe strapped under the rear baffle.
    
I launch the anchors from the cabin. When dug in, I attach the anchor line to a permanent bow line and pay out enough for the load to come on the bow.
    
I have 4 cleats on deck as shown in the plans.
    
I have known of people carrying their anchor forward to launch it, but I have also known of them falling overboard while doing it.
 
I have seen both photographs and drawings of the stove placement in the lazarette. To use the stove, do people kneel facing aft?

For simple jobs, like heating a can or boiling a kettle, I usually sit facing forward and twist round to access the cooker. For more ambitious meals I sit or kneel on the floor and use the seat as a work surface.

What about heads? Obviously this presumably is a bucket, but how difficult is it to reach overside for emptying and washing? 

By standing up and leaning over the side it is easy to reach the water.

I have read of some people having trouble with the hardness of the seat and how people use wheelbarrow tyres, bean bags etc. How comfortable do people find the seating position for long periods?

Initially this was a problem for me as I hadn't thought of having a cushion at all. Now I have a number of different cushions and swap them around through the day to change the pressure points.

Hoping for calm nights
Al, Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>