From: "David Nemo" <nemo@itbloke.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: 28 FOOT PARADOX LIVE A BOARD
Date: Thu, 22 Jan 2009 01:05:03 -0000

28 FOOT PARADOX LIVE A BOARD

Hi all,

I have never posted here before, although I have closely followed with great interest this truly inspirational group and I have long idolized nay coveted, all of the Matt Layden inspired, Paradox Cruisers that have been so beautifully crafted all around the world.

On a personal note, for many years now, initially just to save money and to allow for more flexible working arrangements, {teaching scuba diving, swimming and life-guarding} I have chosen to live solely out of the back of my van, otherwise known as Boondocking, in these days of credit crunches and imminently looming country wide depressions. Over the years I have become very accustomed and even enjoy/prefer living this way.

Although for a long time I have wanted to live on and travel solely by water, I did not want to change my beloved alternative lifestyle too much, except for the odd little extra luxury that I felt the right boat may afford me.

With these factors firmly in mind and because recently a kind person donated a corner of her extremely large stable yard for me to camp and construct in, I have taken a whole year off work and with the savings I have put away over the years, started to build a 28 foot live a board Paradox Cruiser.

I have had the original plans directly translated from there existing measurements to: twenty eight foot by eight foot, not allowing for a possible bowsprit which will obviously add a little to the overall length. I have also chosen to build it using the Skeg variation, shown in one of the diagrams on this site and add a small but usable open cockpit.

I have also slightly changed the build materials, keeping with the thick marine ply for the bottom, however with a thin bonded inner lining of Divinycell for insulation and extra flotation, I then used standard Divinycell alone for the sides and the decks.

All the internal framing is reclaimed hardwood from a church, with peg and hole, mortise and tenon and dovetail joints throughout all double bonded with fibre-glass and resin. I intend to return to more traditional stand alone marine ply for the cabin sides and roof, although I have only recently started work on this.

I also hand carved and planed the chine runners out of two solid pieces of reclaimed oak, then hollowed out rectangular ballast sections along there lengths and filled each with lead before bolting them through their reinforced Hull sections. I then fibre-glassed the hull encasing the chine runners, further securing them.

Although I was initially hugely sceptical about holistically mixing all these materials; marine ply, solid wood and Divinycell, they have truly worked better than I could ever have dreamed, when it came to fibre-glassing the bottom, sides and decks it went down smooth and bonded well. We will see if the application continues to go on so well when I come to fibre-glassing the cabin roof, however, I now in hindsight see no reason why they shouldn't have.

All has gone fantastically well so far and I already have what I consider, a great looking boat that still very much resembles an over sized Paradox Cruiser.

However having reached the stage, where in the next few months, I will sell my van and move on-board, {even if she is only on railway sleepers in the yard}. a sudden fear has just gripped me.

Is it actually feasible to simply double the size of a Paradox and expect her to even float OK let alone sail. Even if she does float and sail OK, will enlarging her in this way, hinder her performance and will she at least inherit some or even any of the wonderful qualities of her little baby sisters that sail so wonderfully.

So as I personally have very little knowledge of boat design, I was wondering, if amongst our learned number, there is anyone who could theoretically, hypothetically or otherwise answer, my worrying and slightly bizarre question, before I go much further, as I have already spent Eight Thousand Pounds on materials and tools to complete building her.

Thanks for your time in this matter, I look forward to hearing your views and theories on this ermm "Paradox!"

Kind Regards - David.

nemo@itbloke.net

Skype Me: itbloke