From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Trim is very important
Date: Fri, 19 Jul 2002 05:10:45 -0000

Trim in these little boats is VERY important. In Little Cruiser we are careful how we ballast our boat. Most of the really heavy stuff is amidship, while the lighter things are put towards the ends. The only exception is when we are going to sail to windward all day long. Then we trim our weight slightly forward. This is accomplish mostly by having Mindy sit farther up. If we are running downwind in heavy winds we both shift farther aft. As for having the motor on the stern, it definely effects the boat's performance adversly. At the moment we have a 3.3 hp Mercury which weighs 28 pounds and it is probably too heavy because our transom is quite narrow. If I were taking shorter trips I'd get a lighter 2 hp motor or just bring the yuloh along.

As for tacking, I have to admit that Paradox is indeed very stiff tracking and at times hard to tack at slow speeds. I think this is in part due to her wide transom and her large rudder. If you just slam the rudder over it acts like a big brake. I'd recommend that you try gently nudging the tiller over a little at a time until you complete your tack. I believe that Matt's emphasis in Paradox was to get as much directional stability as possible. On the other hand Swamp Thing and Little Cruiser tack more easily, but they tend to wander more.

Believe it or not, Swamp Thing with her chine runners is the most manueverable of Matt's designs, and she tacks on a dime at almost any speed. Just slam the rudder over and she's on the next tack. Of course she is extremely skinny and she has a little rudder. Maybe that has something to do with it. I've found Little Cruiser tacks more like Paradox, and I have caught her in irons occasionally when traveling slowly to windward into a short steep sea. I find it's best to fall off a little and build up speed before tacking in these conditions. The odd thing about all this is that during the 2 months we sailed with Matt, I never saw Paradox ever get into irons once. Go figure it. On the other hand, I have gotten Paradox in irons myself while traveling very slowly and trying to tack quickly. I've mentioned this behavior to Matt, and he says it's just the way I'm tacking; however, lately he's been talking about making another rudder for Paradox that is similar to Little Cruiser's. Maybe this will improve her tacking ability. I know for a fact that Matt built 3 rudders for Little Cruiser until he got it "just right". I think it would be a worthwhile experiment to try a Little Cruiser sized rudder on Paradox and see if this improves the boat. If anyone is interested I can measure my rudder and it's balance point some time.