From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 6 Feb 2009 16:30:32 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Larger Paradox

This is what I was talking about. There is alot of thought built into the Paradox that have to do with comfort and ease of sailing. If you just duplicate it on a bigger scale without changing anything on the interior you may find yourself uncomfortable or worse. Everything was designed for ease of sailing. At its original size. Im not saying it could not be done, I am saying that to do it right you may find yourself making changes to the interior and the end result really could not be called a paradox. I would call it a 28 foot sharpie based on the paradox design. Again, this is my first boat build and as such I am too chickenshit to experiment with the design, but I have been paying attention to what the "seasoned" builders have said and I learn more every day. I am not putting down the idea of building a 28 foot replica of a Paradox, I am just sharing my unexperianced opinion in an attempt to learn more about building small boats. My
apologies if my view of this subject has offended anyone.
Rod

From: <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Friday, February 6, 2009, 3:45 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Larger Paradox


On 6 Feb 2009 at 20:59, Mats Blomstrand wrote:

My interpretation is that 4.2 meter boat on a drawing should build to 4.2 meter in reality.

Its not rocket-science to design a boat, but there is quite a number of details to fit together. And they affect eachother in not so obvious ways.

The designer has allready done conciderably thinking on how things like length, weight, sail-area and so on, will fit together.

This boils down to the chicken and egg problem.
If you do know how to modify a design you allready have what it takes to make your own design. So why bother "scaling"?

Apart from the seaworthiness and handling issues that have already been discussed it occurs to me that there are more subtle disadvantages with doubling the dimensions of a Paradox.

One of the great things about Paradox is the ease of handling. All the controls are ready to hand while sitting on the seat. If bulkhead 2 (where the mast is) was twice as far away it would be a fair walk to tend the sails, rather than just reaching forward and grabbing the ropes. Or, I suppose, you could do some further redesign and modify the lead of the ropes. Each change has a knock on effect.

Paradox has had a good response from most of the builders and I think that this is, in part, because it just works. It works so well that you don't notice how cleverly the design aids this. Be prepared for a less than satisfactory boat if you start modifying it.

So for the rest of us, including myself, stick to plan!

Hear hear!

Hoping for calm nights
Al, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com>