From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 16 Feb 2009 16:51:07 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)

If u slide open the hatch of the paradox you can stand up. I have noticed the videos of Little Cruiser and it looks to me that standing and sailing in one of these boats is very feasable.

Rod


From: JMichalsbr@aol.com <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, February 16, 2009, 3:25 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)

The Paradox is of course a very cool design and has a combination of features I'd love to have and have seen nowhere else (except maybe Yrvind 1/2). But one of the things that has given me (as a 6'2" 49-yr-old with a troublesome back) pause about building a Paradox is the inability to move around in one much. I can't exactly stroll around my 20-foot ketch, but at least it has a cockpit in which I can stand up and work the kinks out of my back in the morning. Now I'm trying to imagine staying aboard a Paradox without any way to stretch my legs or even stand up while at sea for weeks at a time. I know I wouldn't want to try it.


From: bert andjan <bertandjan@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sunday, February 15, 2009, 8:41 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)

Wow, thanks for all the consideration. ... seems like other tall folks have worked on the sitting height question. I have looked at other designs as Swaggie. That's a great design BUT I'm really intrigued with the shallow draft and simple design of paradox. It may seem lazy of me, but at my age (65), patience and skill level, Paradox seems much more doable and exciting the way she goes to windward without a centerboard, etc. I've owned a west wight potter, shallow draft, flotation, lots of good qualities, .... but probably not as strong and sea worthy as a paradox.

I had to laugh at myself: i checked back and it seems I raised this same issue of head room a couple of years ago on this site....embarassing to say the least ;0)

I'm in Michigan, my daughter is in Minneapolis and I think I heard a paradox was on the west side of Wisconsin or near Minneapolis. ...obviously it would be best if I could visit one.... have auto, will travel if there is one available for viewing... Most of all thanks for your thoughts, REALLY appreciate them.

Bert