From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)
Date: Mon, 16 Feb 2009 17:09:57 -0800 (PST)

Hi Andrew,

I have been following your post with interest as I am 42 and have been thinking of planning a 'round the world' for when I reach about 60.. We shall see. I have only recently fallen in love with sailing and boats so have only seen 'fair weather. I am building a Paradox clone. I was wondering if you had heard of the boat "Hogfish" on Dave and Mindy Bolduc's site? It would appear, unless I am mistaken, to be a boat that is much larger and based on alot of the Paradox's ideas. I think this boat stills hangs out in the Bahamas area. Maybe you could get in contact with the owner somehow and get some info that will help. Just a thought..

Best regards,
Rod

From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)
Date: Monday, February 16, 2009, 12:01 PM

Hay Bert !

I just turned 60 !=A0 I own a 26 foot modified sharpie of Glen-L design and I love being able to beach it which I have done many times!

The only reason I am looking at building is because I want to sail the Atlantic alone before I get too old to chance it.=A0

I love the Paradox too, but I need to carry stores and spares for 3 people a cat and a dog LOL =A0 I got really intrigued when someone posted about making a 28 foot Paradox, but the more I look into it the more I doubt its feasibility.=A0 In the files section there is a file about larger paradox which they stretch to 16.5 feet.

If I could feel safe about crossing with my sharpie I would!=A0 It is not self righting past about 35 degrees and not self rescuing either like the paradox is.=A0 I know the folks at www.microcruising. com and they have had great luck with Matt Laydens boats.

Just so you know, I have thoroughly researched Bolgers designs too like the long micro and Martha Jane and his new AS-29 (but I like Jessie cooper best!)=A0 see http://www.boatdesi gn.com/tomboy/ Cooper/Page. html=A0 as it was the ancestor of the later AS-29 designs.

I would still like to sail the Atlantic and coast of Africa with a large Paradox, but i am beginning to doubt it is possible to make one that large and retain all the sailing characteristics.=A0 It would end up turning into another boat anyway.

Kindest Regards,
Andrew

From: bert andjan <bertandjan@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)
Date: Sunday, February 15, 2009, 8:41 PM

Wow, thanks for all the consideration. ... seems like other tall folks have worked on the sitting height question. I have looked at other designs as Swaggie. That's a great design BUT I'm really intrigued with the shallow draft and simple design of paradox. It may seem lazy of me, but at my age (65), patience and skill level, Paradox seems much more doable and exciting the way she goes to windward without a centerboard, etc. I've owned a west wight potter, shallow draft, flotation, lots of good qualities, .... but probably not as strong and sea worthy as a paradox.

I had to laugh at myself: i checked back and it seems I raised this same issue of head room a couple of years ago on this site....embarassing to say the least ;0)

I'm in Michigan, my daughter is in Minneapolis and I think I heard a paradox was on the west side of Wisconsin or near Minneapolis. ...obviously it would be best if I could visit one.... have auto, will travel if there is one available for viewing... Most of all thanks for your thoughts, REALLY appreciate them.

Bert