From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Is Paradox suitable for the "vertically challenged"? ;o)
Date: Tue, 17 Feb 2009 13:04:39 -0800 (PST)

Dorys and sharpies are related. In fact a sharpie is a type of dory with less flair and flatter bottom. A paradox is a sharpie design as are most of Matt Laydens boats and so are most of Bolgers designs.

Here is the trouble with and difference between sharpies and dories and Matt Laydens Paradox. These boats are very stable up to about 35 degrees of heel. Vertical sides are less stable than flared sides which makes a dory more stable than a sharpie. A sharpie has more interior space because of the flatter bottom and near verticle sides and usually a beam to length ration of 1/3 (Bolgers 1/4)

My glen-L sharpie design will heel to 45 degrees but past that it will tip ove to 90 degrees and lie flat in the water. even desailing it will not make it right itself easily without several people standing on the keel or higher beam and leaning to provide weight to right it.

In short, most dories and sharpies are not self righting and not self rescuing. This is something important to me as I search for a seagoing vessel.

Matt Layden started with a sharpie shape and enclosed it so that its behavior is more like a Kayak. A Paradox is self righting, if someone shuts themselves inside and self rescuing, which means it should right itself it it "turns turtle" or even rolls completely over in a storm like a Kayak (assuming there is no sail up)... Even then, release the halyard from inside and a Paradox should roll right side up (and you can spend the rest of the day restoring all your small items LOL

If I attempted a crossing with my sharpie or a similar dory, I would be very stable up to 35 degrees of heel. I have been in some caroibbean storms with my sharpie where waves and troughs were about as high as my gaff rig mast. I dropped all sail and put out a sea anchor and just rode out the storm. I would not want to sail with storm jib and reefed main like is possible with a Pearson or a Hunter or Catalina.

If I am capsized completely with any Dory or Sharpie design, I could not be self rescuing and this is a huge factor since I single hand most of the time. I WISH my 26ft sharpie could roll over and right itself like Matt's Paradix! That to me would be an ideal boat.

Even older lifeboats (think Titanic days) would not right themselves if capsized completely. People had to just cling to the overturned boat and wait for rescue. Many modern lifeboats are now self righting and self rescuing like a Paradox, but priced out of reach of most individuals.

In conclusion: YES people have even sailed the oceans in open Newfoundland Dories, biut at increased risk. Even many commercially made sailboats are not self righting past a maximum of 90 degrees and few are self rescuing! In this regard Matt Laydens designs are exceptional boats!

One small dory type boat thatis popular on the West Coast is the SF Pelican. A dory design with a sampan bow. It is extremely wide.. with 1/2 ratio.. half as wide as it is long. One 16ft Great Pelican has sailed from California to Hawaii before. It is very stable as most dories are, but if tossed up and flipped by a large wave, it is not self righting or self rescuing either.

Here is a very cool link.. a sub page of microcruising.com of another site which features Paradox and Matt Laydens other boats. This is a list of famous small boats which have made ocean voyages. I think the smallest on the list is 5.4 feet! It sailed from Newfoundland to England in 1993! Can you imagine? OMG! Here's the cool page http://www.microcruising.com/famoussmallboats.htm

Kindest Regards,

Andrew