From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox Chine Runners ?
Date: Thu, 26 Feb 2009 02:31:37 -0800 (PST)

Matt Layden, the designer tried boats with a keel in the beginning. He went through several designs before arriving at the Paradox. Here is an excerpt from the microcruising page:

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Matt's first home-made microcruiser (pic 
1),Terrapin, was 16' long and had a 
6' beam. With a fully battened mainsail and toed-in 
leeboards,she was reportedly quite fast to windward. She was 
cruised extensively along the North Eastern seaboard of the United States 
and she worked reasonably well. However, one day in the cold 
waters off the coast of Maine, the small flat bottomed boat experienced a 
severe knock down in a fierce storm. The boat went to 90 degrees 
and stayed there, supported only by her buoyant mast. When the winds 
abated, Matt righted his craft, but the experience started him thinking 
about a better and more seaworthy design. This new 
design became Swamp Thing (pic 
2). She was 13'-2" 
long and 44" wide, and she proved to be a novel sailboat because she did 
not have a centerboard or a leeboard. Instead she employed specially shaped 
external chine logs, which Matt called chine runners, to prevent 
leeway. These chine runners also had the added benefit of not picking 
up lobster pot lines or sea weed, which proved troublesome with the 
leeboards on Terrapin. Swamp Thing 
 proved to be a great success overall, and 
she was sailed all the way from Matt's home in Connecticut 
to the Bahamas and back. The only trouble Matt experience during 
the entire trip occurred one very rough night in the middle of 
the Gulf Stream when he was standing on deck signaling his presence with a flashlight 
to a nearby passing freighter. As luck would have it, the great ship 
passed too close by and the subsequent wake upset the already confused 10 
foot seas. This ultimately caused the little boat to be 
knocked onto its side. Unfortunately, Matt then grabbed a chine 
runner for support, and that finally pulled the little sharpie over and on top 
of him. Nonetheless, the diminutive micro-cruiser was soon righted in 
the tepid waters off Florida, and Matt continued 
uneventfully onto the Bahamas. After this long 
cruise, Swamp Thing was given away to a friend, 
and the construction of a larger version began. This sharpie 
became know as GJac (pics 3-5). 
GJac was 14' 10" and was similar in concept 
to her predecessor. After about a year, Matt had learned as much as he could from 
this boat, and he went on to build Little 
Cruiser, which had more comfortable 
accomadations. This 15'2" micro-cruiser was sailed as far North as 
the Bay of Funday and as far South as the Bahamas in the years 
that Matt cruised aboard her. Eventually, we came to own this 
wonderful craft as well as her sister ship, Swamp 
Thing.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The design of Paradox doesn't lend itself well to a centerboard trunk. Previous designs tried Leeboardss. Chine runners work like a SKEG when the boat is heeled and they do help, but I am not sure how much.

My sharpie is 26ft and has no chine runners. The vee formed in the water by the hard chine when it heels is sufficient.

Andrew


From:  <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Paradox Chine Runners ?
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, February 26, 2009, 2:47 AM

On 25 Feb 2009 at 23:34, oldabuelo wrote:

> Would be interested in hearing from Paradox sailors as to how
> effective the Chine Runners are compared to typical center/dagger
> board.

The paradox sails to windward. How much this is to do with the chine 
runners, or the hull shape, or the big rudder I don't know, but the 
whole system works. Whether it would sail to windward better with 
boards or a fixed keel would have to be proved by experimentation.

> In process of modifying a Mirror Dinghy for Open Boat beach camping
> type cruising. Would like to remove the dagger board and replace with
> Chine Runners. Biggest question is since the Mirror weighs only 150
> lbs. +/- will they be as effective on the Mirror as they are on the
> heavier Paradox?

Whether they would work is unknown, there is still no real agreement 
on *how* they work.

My suggestion would be to do some experiments. Get a sheet of foam 
polystyrene and cut some chine runners. Stick on with double sided 
tape and see what happens. If they get ripped off immediately then 
they are obviously doing something and a stronger glue is indicated. 
Report back when you get some results.

> Also .... what is the cross section of the runners on the Paradox? And
> what is the angle they are mounted from the bottom of the boat? In
> photos it looks like 45 eg. approx.

The bottom of a Paradox is flat across the hull, being made from a 
sheet of ply bent around the rocker. This sheet of ply is wider than 
the sides of the boat so sticks out to form the chine runners. This 
extension is then filled in with a *big* fillet. The angle of the 
fillet varies from about 40 degrees at the rear to about 60 degrees 
at the forward end.

If the chine runners don't work then i would suggest fitting a 
swinging centre-board in place of the daggerboard, much more beach 
friendly.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      

Yeovil, England.

<http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com>