From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 18 Mar 2009 12:26:29 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Bolger, Paradox, Self Righting, tradeoffs and other things

Nels,

I started looking into building a LARGER Paradox because it has the unique ability to be self righting and self rescuing. Theoretically it should be able to completely roll over and right itself ( WOULD BE SPOOKY AND DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE HAS EVER TRIED IT).

My sharpie is not too stable past 45 degreees and it is not self righting. If you have a knockdown, there you lie until you get help or eventually sink. That is because it is designed to be light to trailer and not heavy like Bolgers AS series of boats.

I want to single-hand an Atlantic crossing, so I began looking for designs which were self righting and hit upon the Paradox. 

The more I study Paradox, the more I am convinced that stretching beyond the recommended 20% would be complicated, involving thicker and stronger materials, which also alters buoyancy and center of gravity. In short you would need to re-design everything.

Another factor for me is initial cost. Building a 15 foot boat is not outrageously expensive, but translate that into a 29 footer and it becomes mucho $$$

The Paradox, like the SF Pelican series is a wonderful boat for what it was designed, an affordable pocket cruiser, and far better structurally than the Stevens Weekender.

To get into a larger boat on a budget, I think one may be better off getting an older glass boat of proven design and re do the interior or cosmetics. Pearson, Hunter, Irwin, and Grampian can be found for under $4000 and were built back when 3/4 inch hand laid fiberglass was the norm. 

I need larger to make a crossing because I need to stow supplies for at least 30 days including a dog and cat LOL I would like the option of taking additional people too so i don't have to single hand. Also, I can't imagine being stuck in a Paradox for 30-45 days with little room to move about and I am a tall person too like Bert with the hight question.

So economics alone would prohibit me from making a 28 foot Paradox right now. Instead I am giving consideration to buying and redoing a fiberglass design of one of the above. 

Andrew



From: Nels <arvent@hotmail.com>
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Bolger as-29 paradox hybrid
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 18 Mar 2009 1:02 PM

I believe that Matt first encountered this when sailing an small Bolger design that had the chine logs installed externally and felt they canceled out some of the leeway when the leeboard was removed. That design just had the leeboard clamped to hull and it could not be tilted back in shallow water so had to be all the way down or removed entirely.
By "shortening" the logs and making them somewhat wider and more streamlined and parallel to the water flow - the chine runner was born.

And a boxy hull also acts as a keel according to Bolger - providing resistance to leeway, so the chine runners also function somewhat like end plates on a keel.

So this lead to Bolger's statement, "People don't realize that the looks they don't like in a square boat are responsible for the performance they do like."

Nels