From: "Jim Luton" <jim@canopystudios.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Mar 2009 15:06:18 -0000
Subject: New member

Hi Folks,

I've been devouring all the links and photos on this and the micro-cruising group, and thought it time to introduce myself. I'm a sailor and boat builder (non-commercial) in Brooklyn NY, and run a custom woodworking business. I'm sailing an open sharpie, a 16' v bottom crab skiff actually, and will do some camp cruising in her this season. Also currently building a lapstrake Matinicus Is peapod.

I'm very interested in both Paradox and E460, and think that this would be the best and smallest craft that I could use for some coastal trips. I've long been wanting to do a circumnavigation of Long Island, launching from my club on Jamaica Bay near JFK airport, around Montauk offshore a ways, then over to Block Is and Point Judith, down the Connecticut shore and home. 

There are pluses and minuses for either boat (Paradox and E460). One big issue for me is weight. I have to hand launch from a floating dock with a ramp that falls with the tide. My skiff is about 300#, and is manageable up the ramp at half tide with help. Enigma is certainly lighter, particularly unloaded. But I do like the better stability curve of Paradox. Paradox has more in the way of "amenities", and I like that the ballast is below the cabin sole. Enigma's needs to be shifted around for sleeping. But Enigma's cabin is much longer. I have read that some builders have lowered the sill of the bulkhead into the fwd compartment to sole level. That makes sense. If weight were not an issue, I'd build a 120% Paradox, with room for two, but my car won't even tow it!

One question I have about the furling lug- How do you get adequate downhaul (luff) tension? I don't have a lot of experience with the lug, but my understanding is that a multi purchase on the downhaul helps keep the yard peaked up, and the sail setting nicely. 

I have to admit that it has taken me a few years for my eye to get used to the look of these boats. I now find them quite handsome, in a business-like way. Good looking like a Searunner tri, for example. I think it was the demonstrated capabilities of Matt's boats, from the section in Ida Little's book (swampthing), to the Bolduc's micro site. I first saw Little Cruiser while looking through photos of Russ Brown's proas.

Anyway, long post, but I hope to order a set of Paradox plans soon. I need the amount of plans, and address.

Thanks very much,
Jim Luton
http://sailingskiffs.blogspot.com/
http://www.jimluton.com