From: "Nels" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 24 Mar 2009 19:16:29 -0000
Subject: Re: Bolger as-29 paradox hybrid

Here is some further information about Jessie Cooper from a long-time
owner.

We cruised our Jessie Cooper down to Spain ( across the Bay of Biscay)
and up to Germany, so we have a pretty good handle on what can be done with one in cruising terms.

As far as its load carrying ability it does better than most twenty six foot boats...No real difference than a CAL 26 but with the ability of getting more gear in the boat as the stowage on all of Phil's sharpies is really quite amazing (the square hull does have real advantages in that area!)

That said the Jessie Cooper is a small boat so while you can certainly cross the Atlantic with one...To do so you will have to make some compromises and cut back on less than needful "Stuff" just like you would have to do with any 26 foot sailboat whether it be a Bendytoy, Contessa or whatever. Whatever boat you choose it simply makes sense to keep it as near the designed waterline as possible.

It makes sense to keep the build light by not adding stuff that Phil did not design in but if built to spec you will be a happy camper.

As we lived on ours for so long we were a few inches down on the waterline and we never noticed any real loss of sailing performance...

When we built our JC we did the bottom in plywood which is the only way to go...No alteration of the plan is needful and three layers of 1/2" or 5/8" ply is just right. On ours we used two layers of 10 OZ glass over everything and glass tape on the chines as well so the area most likely to bump into stuff had six layers of glass cloth with the overlaps making for one pretty bombproof boat.

The boat goes together like a dream and for someone able to work full time on building it would be hard to spend more than three months in the process...There are a few pics of the building of ours on my blog and I will try and find a few more.

When ever we cruise we figure 1 Gallon of water per person per day...We've never had a problem using those numbers. If I were crossing the Atlantic in a JC I would invest in a small water maker like the Katydyn 40...For anything less I most likely would not bother with a watermaker.

Bob
http://boatbits.blogspot.com/
http://fishingundersail.blogspot.com/