From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 2 Apr 2009 09:40:28 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Building Questions

Matt designed the Paradox to be a microcruiser not just a day sailor. being out far from land in any kind of thunderstorm is nerve wracking! You don't have to be struck by lightning, which would be catastrophic! Your mast or rigging works like a lightning rod which bleeds off the charge between sky and earth and preventing such a strike. 

My Glen-L sharpie was not built with any lightning ground feature so I dangle chain from the standing rigging into the water when i see thunderheads. I have sat at the tiller at night watching electricity clearly visible running up and down my mast stays without ever having been struck and hope I never am! 

STAY CLEAR OF ALL RIGGING in those conditions! If your jib is not already up.. DON'T FURL ONE. My mast and spars are wood, otherwise reef your main and set a storm jib long before you are in such a storm.

Regards,

Andrew


From:  <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, April 2, 2009, 7:15 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Building Questions

> Hi, i've just started building a paradox. I've got a good idea of what
> to do from reading this site, but still a couple of questions.

Welcome to the club.

> - The plans show the side panel scarf as 110mm, but according to
> general design rules the scarf should be 12:1 (so about 144mm scarph).
> So should I extend the scarf and lengthen the rear side panels to
> compensate?

If you extend the scarf you won't get both rear side panels out of the same sheet of ply. I  built as shown in the plans and it worked out fine. I believe some people have made do with a simple butt joint, with a backing piece, without problem.

> - Does the vent trunk drain go all the way through the hull to the
> outside? It seems to show this on the plans.

Yes, this means that any rain water running down the mast, or sea water washing over the decks, can drain straight out of the bottom. Simple and elegant.

> - Can the lightening ground on the bottom be covered in fiberglass or
> should it be in electrical contact with the water.

It should contact the water. I didn't include this on my build as we don't get thunder storms like they do in Florida and I have never met anyone who has had his boat struck by lightning. YMMV.

Good luck with your build, keep us informed how it is going.

Hoping for calm nights
Al,
Yeovil, England.
http://www.little. jim.freeuk. com