From: "Openboat" <openboat@as5jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 20 Jul 2009 10:30:21 +0100
Subject: Re: Vane Gear and Anchoring


I have just returned from a four day trip to the south puget sound. This is the first time I've gone cruising in this boat, Ironsides. I tried something I've always wanted to do. I just tied my anchor line onto an anchor shakle on the anchor, no chain. I felt I was anchoring in calm weather, as predicted. There are nearly all sand and mud bottoms down there in south sound. I carried four 100 ft anchor lines. I carry five anchors. One very light Danforth, with I used exclusivly. The other four are heavy weight castings of a modern ships anchor. Two 15 lbs, one, 20 lb and one 30 lbs. These are ballast too. I had such calm light wind wheather that I just left it to lay on the back deck to dry out. My last day there was chop and white caps. The Danforth and attached line when into the lower aft bin by the transome, on that day. A couple of chains for serious troublsome anchoring will be used as needed. Wet chains are unpleasant. 

I had engine trouble. I learned to use the yuloh. I can say I noticed the difference from the standard pivot point called out on the plans and the new one that Al Law has shared with us. Al's is a bit stiff like overdrive. The "standard" is Relaxed and gentle.

The amazing speed of this boat is very surprising to me. It will ghost along in winds so light that don't show on the quiet glassy water. And wonderfull bursts at hull speed going upwind. I'm stunned. What a wonderful boat. I made a bracket to hold the GPS.

I didn't get to test the wind scoop for the vent hole. When the sun was shining I was moving. I just anchored for the night along the shore, where ever I happened to be. At sundown it cooled nicly and it wasn't needed. I listened to the Marine Weather forcasts and decided on what chances I could take. A good trip.

Glad to see that you are getting some quality time in the boat after all that building.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England. 
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>