From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Seamanship
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 2002 16:22:57 -0700

Hi David,

I have never laid ahull in Zoe but I have in both a mono hull (27 and 40 ft) and in a multi hull (31 and 57 ft). They were not in adverse conditions and all four time it was a VERY uncomfortable experience, more so in the monos which would roll uncontrollably. The multi's would just jerk with any wave action. The problem is that most boats want to lay beam on to the seas. I now carry a sea anchor which will hold the bow into the wind and waves. If I were in a condition where I needed rest for example and did not have a sea anchor I would heave to on the starboard tack. This is not an option with a paradox so I would suggest a sea anchor. I bought one on Ebay for $15 and it is perfect for a Paradox.

Sea anchors are not difficult to retrieve as you might think. I once deployed a thirty foot one off of a 46 ft cruising cat during sea trials for the owner. Chris Morejohn was my 1st mate on the sea trials and neither one of us wanted to deploy it because we thought it would take forever to retrieve it. The owner was insistent so we deployed it. The winds were 18 to 20 kts and the seas running about 5 ft, we were about 10 miles north of St Croix USVI. It was my 1st time under a sea anchor and it was great. The cat rode over the seas like a duck on water and was very comfortable, we all had lunch and then after about 30 min. decided to get it in. Chris and I went forward to haul it aboard thinking it would take the rest of the afternoon. We started hauling on the trip line and the chute collapsed and came right aboard, it was a wonderful learning experience. Just as a note of interest, after retrieving the sea anchor we sped off down wind and when we got up a speed of around 14 kts I ask Chris to deploy the drogue chute off the stern, he thought I was crazy and that we should slow down first for fear of ripping the rear cross member out of the back of the boat. My thoughts were that in very bad conditions the owner might not be able to slow the boat down and if the boat were going to fail it should be during the sea trials. The owner agreed and Chris reluctantly deployed the drogue. Another learning experience followed as there was no sudden stopping or gear failures, just a rapid deceleration from 14 kts to about 3 or 4 as the nylon anchor line stretched out and absorbed the load. The owner jibed a couple of times to ascertain good control and then we retrieved the drogue as effortlessly as we had the sea anchor, actually it was easier because it was smaller.

Tailwinds
Glen