From: "Pete" <pdmartin@ukonline.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Fri, 24 Jul 2009 17:34:02 -0000 
Subject: Re: Glass wet-out problem 

Thanks for all the advice from everyone who responded. 

Firstly, I was so unhappy with a 3 foot section that I got out a sharp knife, cut through the cloth and ripped it off. The rest of the glass was more or less fully wetted with only a few small patches of white here and there. These white patches were sanded out (they were dry glass fibre)and are filled with epoxy filler. I redid the section ripped off with a layer of the same cloth. 

This went on very well but took a huge amount of work. I'm talking the best part of 2 hours to do 1 sq. metre. 

Firstly, because it was such a small section I placed the dry cloth on top of wet epoxy. All the cloth did was float on that. I then warmed my epoxy to make it as thin as possible. It already was pretty thin (MAS low viscosity resin) but ended up like water. With a lot of work with the squeegee I managed to wet the cloth out and get it to sit down on the wood. 

The cloth in question was bought from a reputable dealer. He stocks all West products and the cloth was a catalogue item in his epoxy range of products. The cloth is extremely tight weave and very stiff. The combination of these two I think lead to the problem. I expect, as has been suggested, this cloth is designed for vacuum bagging. A combination of a cloth which virtually repels epoxy, is virtually airtight and very stiff, is not conducive to easy hand lay-up. 

On the small area that I redid, I could see the resin under the clothing moving around and I had to squeeze this out through the cloth with high pressure at the same time as working air bubbles towards the edges. The fact that the fabric is so stiff and closely woven means the it does not conform well to the hull curvature. The flat portions of the run were much easier to lay. 

As an experiment I dropped a few spoonfuls of resin onto a piece of suspended cloth. Not a single drop of resin dripped through the cloth. 

Anyway I've completed the one topside now and I just need to sand the fairing the coat and it will be finished. 

In the interim period I've also used 300gm biax on the transom and chine runners and this wet out within seconds of applying the resin. 

I'm considering buying 5 meters of a different fabric for the starboard side as I don't really want to go through all that hassle again! 

Thanks again 
Pete 

Pictures on my Blog shortly.
http://www.freewebs.com/paradoxbuild/