From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 2 Oct 2009 23:02:51 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: I just discovered Paradox

Hi Cathy,

I think probably most Paradox builders started out with paradox. I haven't built one yet, but I have been reading extensively about Matt Laydens boat designs. Anyone who is a careful worker and can use hand power tools can build a paradox! That.s the beauty of it. Sharpies are notoriously easy to build.

Some rental storage units will allow people to work on projects in them. I know of someone who built a boat in one and he supplied his own power (which was not available) with a small portable generator that he bought in home depot. He later installed the generator in the boat he built. It was also a sharpie.

If you haven't seen it yet, you should visit http://www.microcruising.com.. those folks have cruised extensively in the Little Cruiser.. the Paradox Predecessor.

Regards,
Andrew


From: ladycathyofwales <catherine.james@verizon.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 2 Oct 2009 18:58:06 -0400
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] I just discovered Paradox

This is the most amazing 14 foot sailboat design I have ever seen.

I'm getting ready to build my first boat, a simple Bolger Tortoise (6' x 3'). While I'm nervous even about that little one, I know that once I get started I'll want something more. :-) (Though it's perfect for the small lakes in the town where I live, which do not have boat launch ramps, but do have good carry-in launch spots.)

I daydream over bigger boats, anything from Swaggie on up to something 30+ feet. But anything too big to trailer and/or too big to build in my garage won't fit into my current lifestyle, so much as I'd like to go world cruising, it's not in the cards. At least not yet. :-)

But this Paradox...wow. A boat that's sufficiently seaworthy to take offshore, large enough to camp in for a few days, small enough to leave on a trailer in a one-car garage, light enough to be towable (though not with my present car, sadly)....I just can't believe it.

I live just south of Boston, Massachusetts, with wonderful sailing grounds just a few tens of miles away. Living so close but not owning a boat is killing me!

Am I wrong to think that it is possible and practical to build this in a one-car garage? I live in an apartment, so I don't have some of the space that you house-dwellers do. But I *do* have my own 1-car garage right there in the apartment complex. Just have to clean my junk out!

How many Paradox building are first-time boat builders (excluding simple dinghies like Tortoise)? Are there many "gotchas"?

Cathy