From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: I just discovered Paradox
Date: Fri, 2 Oct 2009 23:11:58 -0700 (PDT)

One more comment...

Comparing with Bolger's boats, the Paradox would be more like a Martha Jane with chine runners instead of lee-boards Bolger's Micro has a ballasted keel like the Swaggie. 

There is one more Paradox group you should visit, tho it is smaller than this group... http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Paradoxboatbuilders/

In the group files section OF THIS GROUP there is a document about stretching the Paradox which is worth looking at if you might want just a few more feet of storage.



Larger Paradox


 Some comments and numbers for a 20% larger (16.5 ft.) Paradox


Andrew



From: ladycathyofwales <catherine.james@verizon.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] I just discovered Paradox
Date: Friday, October 2, 2009, 6:58 PM


This is the most amazing 14 foot sailboat design I have ever seen.

I'm getting ready to build my first boat, a simple Bolger Tortoise (6' x 3'). While I'm nervous even about that little one, I know that once I get started I'll want something more. :-) (Though it's perfect for the small lakes in the town where I live, which do not have boat launch ramps, but do have good carry-in launch spots.)

I daydream over bigger boats, anything from Swaggie on up to something 30+ feet. But anything too big to trailer and/or too big to build in my garage won't fit into my current lifestyle, so much as I'd like to go world cruising, it's not in the cards. At least not yet. :-)

But this Paradox...wow. A boat that's sufficiently seaworthy to take offshore, large enough to camp in for a few days, small enough to leave on a trailer in a one-car garage, light enough to be towable (though not with my present car, sadly)....I just can't believe it.

I live just south of Boston, Massachusetts, with wonderful sailing grounds just a few tens of miles away. Living so close but not owning a boat is killing me!

Am I wrong to think that it is possible and practical to build this in a one-car garage? I live in an apartment, so I don't have some of the space that you house-dwellers do. But I *do* have my own 1-car garage right there in the apartment complex. Just have to clean my junk out!

How many Paradox building are first-time boat builders (excluding simple dinghies like Tortoise)? Are there many "gotchas"?



Cathy