To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Oct 2009 08:36:09 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: I just discovered Paradox

Cathy, this is my first build and I have limited woodshop skills (I think I managed a C or something in high school shop). The great thing is there is so much support online for building this boat. I have run into a few small snags because of my limited education in this area but they have always been worked out by either this forum or pondering the plans alittle more. Its funny... the boat has now been constructed in my mind and I am finding it much easier to build. You cannot buy a boat like this anywhere... you have to build one.
I highly recommend it. 

I live in a small apartment on Venice Beach, Ca. USA I have a small flat space out back where I gained permission from my landlord to build. Most of my parts have been made ready to assemble in my bathroom.... in the bathtub. (easy to clean up small parts sanded or cut here..... LOL )
 
Rod

From: ladycathyofwales <catherine.james@verizon.net>
Date: Friday, October 2, 2009, 5:58 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] I just discovered Paradox
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

This is the most amazing 14 foot sailboat design I have ever seen.

I'm getting ready to build my first boat, a simple Bolger Tortoise (6' x 3'). While I'm nervous even about that little one, I know that once I get started I'll want something more. :-) (Though it's perfect for the small lakes in the town where I live, which do not have boat launch ramps, but do have good carry-in launch spots.)

I daydream over bigger boats, anything from Swaggie on up to something 30+ feet. But anything too big to trailer and/or too big to build in my garage won't fit into my current lifestyle, so much as I'd like to go world cruising, it's not in the cards. At least not yet. :-)

But this Paradox...wow. A boat that's sufficiently seaworthy to take offshore, large enough to camp in for a few days, small enough to leave on a trailer in a one-car garage, light enough to be towable (though not with my present car, sadly)....I just can't believe it.

I live just south of Boston, Massachusetts, with wonderful sailing grounds just a few tens of miles away. Living so close but not owning a boat is killing me!

Am I wrong to think that it is possible and practical to build this in a one-car garage? I live in an apartment, so I don't have some of the space that you house-dwellers do. But I *do* have my own 1-car garage right there in the apartment complex. Just have to clean my junk out!

How many Paradox building are first-time boat builders (excluding simple dinghies like Tortoise)? Are there many "gotchas"?

Cathy