From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 12 Oct 2009 01:20:05 -0000
Subject: Re: Paradox Vs Enigma 460

Paradox was conceived as the ultimate microcruiser for long term sailing. I think Matt once described her as a 40 footer shrunk down to 14 feet. The really nice thing about the little boat is that the interior is so nicely appoined for living aboard. There are plenty of shelves, nets and bins so all your gear has a place to go, which makes locating stuff easier later on. There is the galley aft and two large water tanks amidship which can even be replenished in the field with a built-in rain catchment system. The boat is heavily built, many say overbuilt, to withstand all manner of serious weather sailing as well as collisions with the usual objects you see in the shallows like rocks, oyster bars and reefs. With her thick insulation, there is no doubt a sailor could live comfortably in any kind of weather for months on end.

On the other hand, the Enigma boats are lighter built, which makes them faster to put together and easier to transport. However, the interior is alot more spartan. Since I've never personally seen the 460, I can only comment on the 360 which I own. I think one of the things that I've found most challenging after sailing on Paradox and Matt's earlier sharpies is packing my gear. On Little Cruiser, for instance, all I had to do was fill the water tanks and toss our food and our gear in the various bins and shelves, and we were ready to cruise. Aboard Enigma, it's more like being in a kayak. Everything needs to be packed into seperate little nylon bags, which then are stuffed behind leecloths along with all the water bottles. Since there is no bilge where water can collect, it's important to put delicate gear in waterproof bags if they are located in the main cabin. In addition, I've also observed that without the insulation, there is a fair bit of condensation on the walls which leaves you damp at night or when it rains.

As for how the boat performs, I have to say that I am very pleased with the ENIGMA 360. She sails to windward well, which was proven at the North Carolina Challenge this month by winning her class in what turned out to be some pretty windy windward conditions. Like Paradox, she is well balanced and tracks nicely. In the end, though, all I can say is that both boats are winners, and hopefully Matt will make the Enigma plans available someday.  

Dave