From: John Jamieson <jjamieson2@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 12 Oct 2009 02:30:17 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Biggest challenges of building Paradox

Cathy,

All of the things you mentioned in your last message are fairly easy procedures but can seem complicated if you've never done them. Most of building Paradox is just plain sticking to it so that the process doesn't take so long that one loses their enthusiasm and the project never gets done.

I don't know what part of the country you're in (or for that matter,even what country!) but I would suggest that you try and find someone who is teaching a course in small boat building of some kind. Maybe there's somebody near you that works in plywood or a community college night course in boat building. You may also be able to find someone through an ad in the paper that could explain the procedures you mentioned.

A final note: none of the pieces of wood used in building Paradox are really all that expensive. I would suggest jumping in with both feet after getting all the advice you can and reading everything about the processes involved. Its all out there in either a book or a plan or maybe a pamphlet from a manufacturer. Start with the Internet for info, keep in touch with this group, ask around for advice. Don't do what a fellow I met did! I used to help teach an evening course in wooden boat repair at a community college in Juneau, Alaska. One of the students bought a piece of wood and took it home for his project. I ran into him about a year later and asked him how it was going. He sheepishly told me he hadn't cut the wood, yet! It was under his bed while he waited for the courage to make the cut! Its only a piece of wood, or a jug of epoxy not brain surgery. Go for it and have fun while you do.

John Jamieson

---
From: ladycathyofwales <catherine.james@verizon.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sunday, October 11, 2009, 11:29 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Biggest challenges of building Paradox


It's a bet. :-)

Here are the things that immediately worry me:

-- Building jigs, something needs to be done pretty early in the process. I have no experience with jigs. The deck beam jig arrangement looks complex, with several pieces of wood needing to be bent at once and clamped. Is two hands enough, or does this require a helper?

-- Laying out the parts on the plywood; one sheet has "not a single spare mm wood." I may need to be an extra sheet after I botch the first one...

-- Making the stem looks like a bear of a job.

-- I can use a block plane for simple planing, but I fear anything that requires complex shaping. It will be too easy to overshoot.

-- Scarfing the side and bottom panels evenly and smoothly. I've never scarfed anything and I'm not even sure what tools to use. It seems to me that a plane would tear the wood at its edge when used at steep angles.

-- Fitting and bending the sheer strakes and chine logs. I'm an average height and weight woman, not known for strong muscles.

-- Mixing and applying epoxy fast enough when working with large pieces of wood, e.g. side and bottom panels.

-- Molding and making the gudgeon (probably not too hard, actually, but the process is totally outside my experience).

And last, but certainly not least:

-- Keeping up focus for the 2 to 3 years that is clearly required to build it, while dealing with the pressures of my job.

I just received the plans for Jim Michalak's Robbsboat, and I've ordered the Paradox plans but not received them. I'm looking forward to studying and comparing several sets of plans for different boats.

Cathy

Gene Tehansky wrote:
> I bet you can be convinced that the points you are thinking
> about are not so tricky...
>
> ladycathyofwales wrote:
>> There are a few things about building Paradox that scare me, and
>> I'll post questions on them when I have some more time...complex,
>> tricky operations that have to be done all in one go definitely
>> scare me, and Paradox seems to have a few of those.)