From: openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 12 Oct 2009 10:54:44 +0100
Subject: Re: Biggest challenges of building Paradox

Here are the things that immediately worry me:

-- Building jigs, something needs to be done pretty early in the process.  I have no experience with jigs.  The deck beam jig arrangement looks complex, with several pieces of wood needing to be bent at once and clamped.  Is two hands enough, or does this require a helper?

Another pair of hands is always helpful, however I built Little Jim with no outside assistance except when rolling over and moving the bottom panel. The jig is simply to hold the strips of wood while the glue sets, the shape is not particularly critical, it just ensures some curvature to the deck.
 
-- Laying out the parts on the plywood; one sheet has "not a single spare mm wood."  I may need to be an extra sheet after I botch the first one...

Remember, measure twice and cut once. Draw the shapes on the wood and you will see if they all fit, then just cut along outside the line. Most parts are cut roughly to shape and trimmed to the exact size once bonded in place. Bulkhead 2 is shown on the plans as 2 parts with a butt joint. If you can afford another half sheet of ply it would be worth cutting this bulkhead from that, in one piece. This would leave more space on the sheet it is supposed to come from.

-- Making the stem looks like a bear of a job.

It is a fairly large lump. As with all the bevels the final shape is decided on the trial assembly. I found an angle grinder with a coarse sanding disc to be invaluable for this sort of work (though it does produce enormous amounts of dust).

-- I can use a block plane for simple planing, but I fear anything that requires complex shaping.  It will be too easy to overshoot.

If you end up with a gap, fear not. That is what epoxy is for. Console yourself with the thought that filled epoxy is stronger than wood so you have just made the boat stronger (that's what I did anyway). Once the boat is assembled no-one can see these errors so you can pretend they don't exist :->

-- Scarfing the side and bottom panels evenly and smoothly.  I've never scarfed anything and I'm not even sure what tools to use.  It seems to me that a plane would tear the wood at its edge when used at steep angles.

Not having a power plane, and being lazy, I again used the angle grinder for this. I clamped together all the bits that needed scarfing (4 bits for the side and 2 bits for the bottom) and cut the slope in them all at the same time. 

I had never scarfed anything before but found it relatively painless.

-- Fitting and bending the sheer strakes and chine logs.  I'm an average height and weight woman, not known for strong muscles.

There should be no problem with the sheer strakes, they are quite thin. On the plans Matt says of the chine logs "May be laminated in place from 2 x 19mm pieces". I would recommend that you do this, bending the single piece into place was HARD. (I should probably have steamed it to the approximate bend first)

-- Mixing and applying epoxy fast enough when working with large pieces of wood, e.g. side and bottom panels.

The pot life will depend a lot on the ambient temperature of your workplace, but for the bigger jobs a few helpers would undoubtedly make things less hectic. I managed it all on my own, but for the bottom panel I made an electric stirrer so that one batch was being mixed while I applied the previous one.

-- Molding and making the gudgeon (probably not too hard, actually, but the process is totally outside my experience).

You will have to get comments from others about this, I made mine from a lump of Tufnol.

And last, but certainly not least:

-- Keeping up focus for the 2 to 3 years that is clearly required to build it, while dealing with the pressures of my job.

Remember it won't do the hull any harm to go off and leave it for a couple of months, it will still be there when you come back.

When I started building I laid out a plan that included a pause after 2 years where I would take stock and then decide if I was ever likely to finish it. It came as rather a surprise when I finished after 18 months.

Building a Paradox requires a lot of operations, but they follow on from each other in a logical way and each one is not that difficult. It is so over designed that small errors won't affect it much and added weight is not an issue. I think it would require someone to be very ham fisted to not end up with a satisfactory boat.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com