From: "" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 11 Nov 2009 11:42:17 -0000
Subject: Re: building material for paradox

I too took interest in Paradox and in Yrvind 1/2 nearly simultaneously. I am actually just a few minutes drive from where Sven's old double-ender Bris is stored. I've taken huge interest in building one (a Paradox) but also am really interested in Sven's ideas.

I think the foam is a great idea on many levels. One huge problem I see when Sven is sitting in his boat, is that that 2 inches of foam on all sides actually does a great bit to fill up precious interior space. I know that Sven is known for his ability to adapt to a small space. On Bris (which I had the pleasure of boarding and checking out) there is a great deal of space. The dimensions, especially headroom, was astonishing considering the size of the boat. In the beginnings of his build page, Sven actually shows the forms he is using to frame out the divinycell. Then, seemingly on the spot, he chose to chop the boat's dimensions down considerably. On top of that, he uses the very thick divinycell. Of course, the forms represented INTERIOR space regardless, but I know I would have chosen that *slightly* larger boat. I'm taller than Sven anyways, a great excuse to go slightly larger!

Who was it said "someone starting out sailing knows how big a boat he needs, the experienced sailor knows how small a boat he needs"?

I'm going to build *something*. I am devoted to the Paradox concept and excited about working towards that goal, but the pvc foam is definitely a consideration. I would deliver some kind of advice, but I am just embarking on this journey myself. I am giving myself some time to save up $$$, theorize on possible alternative rigs, and schooling myself up in Matt Layden's designs so that I will do some justice to the Paradox pedigree when considering where I go.

Remember Sven is building an ocean crosser while Paradox is designed for coastal cruising. Using the foam as Sven does makes for a much more expensive boat. Do you need the advantages that extra expense gives you? Paradox is extremely rugged, it is far stronger than any equivalent sized boat that I have come across. Paradox is also lined with foam which gives sufficient buoyancy that it won't sink even if full of water.

In 6 years of sailing I have done some silly things. During one of these the mast went into the water and about 2 litres of water came on board. That is the only time water has come aboard except for the odd splash or bit of spray and certainly the only time there has been enough water to be able to use anything except a sponge to clear it.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>