From: Jack Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 13 Nov 2009 09:25:21 -0500
Subject: Re: New England Paradox owners

Hi Michael,

I would be the man your looking for, I am from Warwick R.I. , just north 
of TF Green airport, My Paradox is the one called Jill Baby, shes 
sitting on her trailer, ready to sail. I have some stuff that may save 
you some $$$$ in your building plans, I can also save you alot of time 
in building as I have been "there" already.... I have a roll of 12 oz 
biax fiberglass, about 140 yards on it :) I would gladly "donate" what 
you need for your bottom, the bottom glassing can get expensive if you 
go with the roven woven that the plans specify, anyway if you would like 
to see it, or even try it out in the bay, if we have another "good" day, 
tough this time of year as you may well know in the bay, or find a pond 
or lake. I wont be needing to use your 25 footer as I have one 
already!!! I have a 1974 hunter 25 in a slip at Dickersons in apponaug, 
but the full cooler is very tempting, oh and I built my own sails, can 
save you more in that dept too!! the paradox didnt take a whole lot of 
material, just took alot of thinking, and elbow grease! well, I will 
email you and we can go from there, Thanks for serving!!!!!!!

Jack

sandinmytea wrote:

Hello,

My name is Michael McCarthy, of Newport, RI.

I have just received my Paradox plans, along with the building 
descriptions written by the late Don Elliott, furnished by his wife. 
Both arrived quite quickly, even considering this past Veterans Day 
holiday!

My plans to build are slow in coming together. To begin with, I am 
going to raise funds, but in no particular hurry, as to make sure this 
all goes through smoothly. I am also a Reservist, and there is a firm 
probability that I may deploy (again) so I am developing my plans in a 
stretched out manner so my expectations aren't too stiff.

I am hoping to touch base with owners of Paradox in the New England 
area. If anyone is feeling generous, come appropriate weather this 
next Spring I am hoping to offer a trade of a few days good labor (yard 
clean-up, boat day work, home repair?) for the opportunity to 
cruise a day or so in a Paradox. My primary interest is just to see 
how she sails! Also, if anyone is a fan of Newport, as of May 1st, my 
25ft C&amp;C Mk1 "Kestrel" will be back on her mooring, so I would be 
honored to trade vessels for a day or so, so that someone could get 
the chance to have a good time in Narragansett Bay (and her nearby 
waters). Of course, you could always enjoy the Bay in your Paradox, 
but I'd stock my cooler with the beverage of your choice to sweeten 
the pot!

Please contact me via email if this idea doesn't sound to crazy. I 
appreciate your correspondence! I would like to get an idea of how 
popular this design is around here!

Michael McCarthy
taoism@mail.com