From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 21 Nov 2009 17:01:33 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Batteries as ballast

Some deep cycle batteries are made in smaller dimensions as they are used in scooter type wheelchairs. They might be better for a microcruiser. I use full size batteries in my sharpie. I added extras because I have solar but no generator. My outboard will charge but I resist running it unless desperate.

Andrew


From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Batteries as ballast
Date: Saturday, November 21, 2009, 4:48 PM

batteries are 8 to 10 inches high (200-250cm) the main ballast needs to be somewhere near the midsection of the boat. ballancing with some forward and some aft would reduce the ability of the bow and or stern to rise to waves and not recommended. I think it might be usefull on some boat but not on a microcruiser.
JG

From: sandinmytea <sandinmytea@ yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@ yahoogroups. com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Batteries as ballast
Sent: Fri, November 20, 2009 10:11:29 PM

I am still making my way through the thousands of messages, and am about halfway through, and learning much. I haven't found this mentioned yet, but perhaps it was thrown in somewhere I haven't looked.

In the opinion of current owners, is there room in the design of Paradox for there to be batteries, in addition to (or rather than) water or lead pigs as ballast?

I ask because batteries are ridiculously heavy. Every time I think about adding lead to a boat, I can't help but figure that it makes sense to chuck the godawful heavy things in instead.

Another factor, is that there are some excellent marine electric engine options out there nowadays. I can't help but feel that there is room in the design for a modest electric propulsion engine (inboard, outboard) vs. the idea of fuel and an outboard which seems to be the current way to go. Electric is also quiet!

As for fumes and ventilation, good AGM batteries could make up for this. There are numerous sizes and designs. A small ventilation system could be incorporated into the current system as well.

As far as ballast, it would still be quite necessary to have plenty on hand to adjust as needed, but Paradox carries quite a bit so I imagine that wouldn't be a problem if the right measurements and thought went into it.

Stupid idea? 

Make your browsing faster, safer, and easier with the new Internet Explorer 8. Optimized for Yahoo! Get it Now for Free!