From: "sandinmytea" <sandinmytea@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 30 Nov 2009 00:30:49 -0000
Subject: Building paradox as a school project

Hey everyone, this will be a long post.

I have the privilege of volunteering at a unique charter High School here in Rhode Island. It has been a great time, and it started when I mentored 3 students this early fall taking them sailing on my 25 footer twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays). Things went well, the students ended up doing some awesome projects relating science and physics to sailing (not hard to do, and they did very well, the projects were awesome).

My intense interest in building Paradox is actually resulting in another good opportunity. Its my hope to use my time to teach the students even more life skills (including numerous involving woodworking, electricity and so on) through boat building. Other not-so-obvious skills I hope to demonstrate include following a build plan and designs (you all understand that!) and budgeting, which will in many ways be the determiner of most of how the project continues.

The school is incredibly forward thinking. It also has a liberal policy as regards liability. Each Tuesday and Thursday they release their students to various places in the community to do work. This includes places like forges, auto garages, water treatment plants etc. They have a fairly comprehensive insurance policy, and they make certain that they check the backgrounds and safety precautions taken of all those who mentor their students. In other words, there would be no problem with me handing them sharp objects, power tools or caustic chemicals as long as I take all the necessary precautions in teaching them in their safe and appropriate usage. There is currently an student rebuilding a V8 engine in the science room of the school, for example! The school would be happy to compensate me for any expenditures that directly relate to their education and safety as well. Another additional benefit would be that anyone willing to donate material to the build (such as local boat yards with excess or off-cut stuff) would be able to get a tax write off.

My questions for the group mostly concern the order of build. I have gathered that it is most intelligent to start with the structural members and accessories before actually building the hull itself (in case it would have to be moved, which is a possibility, and to save space). This is convenient because I could immediately begin construction of such things as the rig, rudder assembly et cetera. I would start planning for the complicated solar/wind 12V system plus electric propulsion I envision. That last one is great because this is something that a ton of students are interested in. Even if only a handful want to build a boat, there would be at least a dozen who would join in in learning how "green energy" works.

Opportunities for teaching the students are endless. There are boat yards all over the island that I could take them on field trips too as well. I would not do all the work in their presence. There would be plenty of times where they would return to the project having found a large process completed. I would however include them in most of the designing/planning, and a lot of the fun "plugging it together" moments so that they can fully take in all the concepts. The school has a mixed variety of students, with different learning goals and interests. The last group had a great time sailing, and we mostly lazily sailed around talking about life and eating pretzels. Good stuff.

If you the current builders/sailors of the Paradox design had this opportunity (and the patience to work with students at the delicate High School age) what would you do with it? What would you definitely NOT do with them (I am sure working with the most dangerous tools such as angle-grinders would come to mind). I am sure the most expensive materials would also be tough to hand over to youngsters. On the other hand, you would be surprised (or maybe you wouldn't) at what they can accomplish. They're a great group.

There it is. I am hoping to get a few responses as I will begin this process this week. I am going to start putting the idea out there and see which students will most benefit from this particular aspect of hands-on learning. I've also decided that if this works out, that I will let the students think of the right name for the boat (God help me, I will not let it be called "Twilight" or the "Miley Cyrus" however). Thanks for reading all this!

Mike