From: jhargrovewright2 <jhargrovewright2@juno.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 3 Dec 2009 17:07:47 -0600
Subject: Re: Chine Runners

Nels,
I totally agree with your assessment of chine runners and the PDR. Simply not the right boat, for the chine runner.
Also. not necessary but, it would not be a class legal PDR because they can not have horizontal foils.
The consensus seems to be (I agree) that chine runners work but need help from the hull also providing some LR.  The runners also need help from an oversized rudder.  That requires the CE be farther aft than....normal practice.
johninbastrop


On Thu, 03 Dec 2009 21:12:38 -0000 "Nels A" <arvent@hotmail.com> writes:
  
I would be very surprised if chine runners would be all that effective on a PDR, or even for that matter a Robbsboat. Matt has written an article about them for "Small Boat Advisor" and it was posted on Sven's website but seems to have been deleted now.

From what I recall, they require a relatively heavy displacement hull with a fair amount of rocker amidships in a hull design that creates some lift by itself. Meaning it has a flat bottom will little flare on the topsides. So the hull itself aids in preventing leeway and the chine runners act as end-plates to provide even more resistance to leeway.

If one is considering a light, easy to transport design, those characteristics are counter intuitive in my view. A leeboard or centerboard are the most effective options, which I am quite certain both Matt and Michalak are well aware of.

It was Phil Bolger who first demonstrated the effectiveness of end-plates on shallow rudders. They prevent the water flow off the rudder from passing downward and make the rudder more effective, by resisting that flow. He felt it would also work on the bottom of a shallow keel, but would be subjected to damage when grounding or loading onto a trailer. A "wing keel" also works but was banned in the America's cup.

A centerboard with an adjustable wing on the bottom that stays parallel to water flow as it is raised would be ideal, but the mechanisms to make that happen without jamming up if grounding with it down have been a challenge for designers.

Nels

For a pd racer with a cabin look at the youtube video of Jason Nabors Tenacious Turtle.
I think chine runners are the easiest leeway preventer to build.I had a leeboard break.I'm not sure how well chine runners would work on a box boat.
A light boat like this is very easy to manoever on a small trailer.It is much easier than cartopping if you sail alone.
Cheers Neil

--- In paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com, "ladycathyofwales" catherine.james@ wrote:

The problem with your proposal, at least from my point of view,is that you are simplifying the parts that are already simple while leaving the hard parts hard.

Chine runners still look to me like one of the harder parts of Paradox, at least in comparison with simple leeboards or a drop-down daggerboard a la PDRacer.

On the other hand, I have no qualms about building a deck and cabin for a box-boat -- simple!

Cathy

sandinmytea wrote:
If you are interested in making it more simple than Paradox, but not too simple, why not scale down the Paradox design a bit and try an Enigma-like chine runner sharpie? 


Weight Loss Program 
Best Weight Loss Program - Click Here!
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/c?cp=Js9X6cw28UpOBxINNXxq9AAAJ1AzsJeJrSWoyYL3i-CwNeYfAAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEUgAAAAA