From: "Nels A" <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 05 Dec 2009 20:35:25 -0000
Subject: Apartment Dwelling Options?

I have witnessed many options over the years - many I have tried myself - as I travelled around in my job:) Some free and some cost extra.

When I had a solo canoe I carried it on the roof almost all year round. It was yellow with the added benefit of being able to locate my car easily in a large parking lot on the K-car I had at the time. And in the winter stored it behind a co-workers house.

Also I had a Folbot for several years, which could be stored in the apartment storage spot that came with the apartment. I carried it upright on the car roof so as not to have to set it up each time I went out.

Then I upgraded to a van and carried a small dinghy in the back. Even slept aboard the dinghy - while it was in the van.

Then when I got too many toys - bike and ski equipment, tools etc., I rented a covered storage spot. One guy next to me ran a cabinet building business out of his spot! We discussed building a small boat but then I got transferred again. Another co-worker built a cedar strip canoe on his weekends in a storage spot rented by our employer and was building a small airplane when I left. He hoisted it up above the floor area after each time he worked on it.

Several others I knew rented a spot for their trailer- sailors at a near-by RV storage or boat storage location.

To me a short stubby boat like Tenacious Turtle would be very awkward to car-top. Longer and narrower is much easier to load and unload. First you lift the bow up onto the front rack from alongside the vehicle. Then lift the stern and walk it around and up on the back rack. Then slide it forward. You might want a piece of protective foam behind the forward rack to to protect the paint on the vehicle. I had my rack cross-bars extending outwards about a foot on the foreward rack so did not require protection.

Also a pointy extended bow gives much better gas mileage when driving. And you can also keep an eye on the bow to see if it stays in place as you drive, especially when meeting semis. Also easier to tie down the boat solidly with lines from the bow to eye-bolts each end of the bumper. At my age, a boat no heavier than about 75 pounds is all I want to load.

A short stubby pram can be stored stern upright at the front of your parking spot and locked up.

I also have a a folding wheeled dolly to transport a small hull down to the water.

A fold-down removable pram hood that allows sailing control underneath is something I would like to investigate further to