From: "sandinmytea" <taoism@mail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 15 Jan 2010 04:04:31 -0000
Subject: Re: New England Paradox owners


Awesome! Thanks for the offer. I'm not likely to be down your way anytime (more is the pity! I would have to shovel the snow away from my car first!)

There were a few responses last time I asked, but seems like they're in hibernation too. =3D)

Best regards,
Mike


From: beard38804@...
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: ----
Subject: -----

Hello,

I am not in new England, but, if your ever in Mississippi look me up, your will be more than welcome to take Whisper out for the day.

Thanks,

David Beard

From: JMichalsbr@...
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Tuesday, January 12, 2010 7:44:21 PM GMT -06:00 US/Canada Central 
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] New England Paradox owners 

I'm in same boat--so to speak. s New England, interested in seeing/riding in/sailing a Paradox. Mine is a ways out--might start build in a couple of years.
Jeff Michals-Brown


From: sandinmytea <taoism@...>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Tue, Jan 12, 2010 5:54 pm 
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] New England Paradox owners 

I had posted a message a few months ago to the same effect, and got a few great responses, but I thought I would shout out again and see if I can find someone:

I am planning on building a Paradox and would like to get the opportunity to sail one (or see one sail, or just see one) sometime before I begin my build.

Is there anyone in the New England area that would be willing to allow a young man to take their vessel for a spin? I would be willing to either pay, or do some household/ lawn work or other such. Obviously this isn't the right time of the year for it, but I would like to touch base with someone who would be so gracious well before the season starts back up. As I posted last time, I am also willing to trade someone time in their Paradox for some time on my 25 foot C&C in Newport harbor in the spring. She's a great, fast boat, and would be willing to let an accomplished sailor take her our for a few days in trade for the opportunity to check out a Paradox and see what the design can offer.

Thanks for your time! If you do not own a Paradox yourself, but know someone near you that does (and who would be amenable to such an idea) please don't hesitate to contact me!

Thanks again.

Michael McCarthy 
taoism [at] mail.com 
Newport, RI