From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
Date: Wed, 14 Aug 2002 20:31:21 -0000
Subject: Paradox rudder
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

I have to admit that when I first saw Paradox I was struck by how large her rudder was;however, even before we took our trip together to the Bahamas,Matt told me he had trimmed it down. I think the reason behind the large rudder originally was to optimize windward ability and to enhance straight tracking.  I believe Sven used this concept in his 15' Bris, but he also said something in his Cruising World article about burning out two autopilots on his Atlantic crossing.  

In Paradox's case I think the rudder works as intended, but it also creates problems in other areas. When we were crossing the Bahama Banks together, Matt was able to sleep quite a lot during the night passage because Paradox steered a fairly straight course.  Mindy and I, on the other hand, had to take turns at the helm because our boat wandered more. Still, I noticed later that when I got to sail Paradox I sometimes got caught in irons while tacking in light airs. It took me a while to learn how to "nudge" the helm over gently to acheive the desired results. Of course in Matt's capable hands I never saw him go into irons once during our two months of sailing together. In my opinion, I think the big rudder acts like a break, and if you just slam it over while tacking you'll stop.  By the way, I never saw this problem with Swamp Thing eventhough she has only chine runners so I don't think the lack of a centerboard or a keel has anything to do with it. In addition, I noticed that when Paradox's rudder kicked up in shallow water it created a lot more leehelm than what I had noticed aboard either Little Cruiser or Swamp Thing.  For these two reasons I believe that reducing the rudder length and maybe even changing the shape of Paradox's rudder entirely could improve overall handling.

Therefore, today I took Little Cruiser's elliptical shaped rudder off, and I traced it on a large sheet of construction paper. It measured 29 15/16" long and 16 1/4" at it's widest point.  By the way, the rudder is constructed out of two pieces of 1/2" plywood glued together to equal a full inch. It is also tapered from top to bottom and fore and aft to produce a foil shape. Tonight I will make a table of offsets so that it can be duplicated exactly. In comparing it to Paradox's rudder, I found that LC's rudder was 25 3/8" long from the pivot hole, while Paradox's was 29.13" from her pivot hole. The Paradox rudder is also 15 3/4" wide versus LC's 16 1/4".  Roughly speaking this means that maybe you could cut up to 3.75" off the Paradox rudder.  However, I think it might be wiser to whittle a little off at a time or to simply build a test rudder.  Another option might be to adapt the shape of Little Cruiser's rudder for use on Paradox since Matt hinted to me on my last visit with him that he prefered the shape of LC's rudder because it was better balanced.  

Well, anyways, these are my thoughts on how to improve Paradox.  Now it's time to start "improving" Little Cruiser for our next trip.  First on the list is to build a new bowsprint since the last one wasn't quite tough enough to survive contact with docks.  

Dave