From: "" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Hi from a Newbie........
Date: Sun, 14 Feb 2010 15:20:23 -0000


You may well be right, I am not in any way evangelising junk rig,
"whatever works for you" is generally my manta. [:)] I am simply
musing on why would I want to spend money on a sail and mast when I
have one by me that will do the job. 

It depends how you define "the job". The current design is organized 
such that it not only provides motive power but also stows neatly and 
quickly when at anchor and stows securely when trailering.

It has similar ease of reefing that you would get with a junk, but 
with much finer control of the sail area.

The centre of pressure needs to be well aft to balance the hull 
correctly so a properly sheeted junk would probably need a bumpkin to 
get the lead right.

Looking at the design, I think I
would have to move the mast a forwards a bit, but that isn't any big
deal. 

If you moved the mast forward would you move the supporting bulkhead 
with it or fit an extra bulkhead (which could easily mess up the 
forward storage space, not to mention the ventilation system)  

At the end of the day, as I said in a previous post, I think the
Paradox would be a struggle to get into for a big lummox like me, so I
would probably want to stretch it a bit anyway.
 
Possibly, the easiest proof would be to do a practical test. Remember 
Matt sailed Paradox in the Bahamas two-up with his girlfriend/wife.

The big thing for me
about the Paradox design is those bilge runners, the worse thing about
the design is the water ballast. From my point of view, the water
belongs on the outside, but any boat that can take the ground upright
is the dogs danglies for me! Best, Charlie.

I sailed Little Jim for a season with lead replacing the water, but 
have now gone back to the water ballast due to the easier out-of-
water handling.


Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>              