From: "dave" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Little Cruiser rudder and sailmaking
Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 14:09:53 -0400


Attached are instructions and the offsets for building Little Cruiser's rudder.

In regards to locating a good sailmaker, I have this to say.  The reality is that there isn't a lot of money to be made in making high quality small sails, so there isn't much interest in it.  Mindy and I had a sail made by Gambell and Hunter which did not come out the way we liked.  It was expensive and lasted only one season due to some fundamental errors in designing the leech. (Leech became slack because it was on the bias).  Out of fraustration we bought an old commerical zig-zag sewing machine for $250, and we made an exact copy of Matt's old sail.  I can say that the sailmaking process was not easy, but nothing new is.  However, our first home-made sail has now lasted three seasons and it is still going strong.  With the knowledge we gained building our first sail, we are now ready to build a "new and improved" version.  This will include going up in weight from 4 to 5 ounces, and moving our top batten down to contact the throat of the sail.  If you are at all serious about making lugsails get yourself a copy of the "Sailmaker's Apprentice."   If there is sufficiently interest I can post more about what I've learned about lugsail design such as position of maximum draft, amount of round and broadseam shaping.  Also take a look at http://www.microcruising.com/sailmaking.htm .

For a sail as simple as Paradox's it should be possible to find a competent sailmaker to do the job.  I've spoken to Todd Bradshaw on the phone about sailmaking, and he seemed very knowlegeable and friendly.  I've also heard some good reports about the other sailmakers mentioned in the earlier posts so they should work out fine.  If you are interested in making your own, then you might consider contacting Sailrite and asking Don Elliott about the performance of his sailrite sail. One thing to remember when ordering your sail is to specify exactly what you want. Keep in mind that these sails are not your run of the mill 100 square foot sails.  They need LOTS of draft to pull our heavy little boats along.  Your sailmaker needs to be aware of this otherwise you could end up with a sail fit to push a sunfish but NOT a heavy cruising boat like Paradox.

Dave