From: "Dave" <daveskaife@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 26 Feb 2010 22:47:07 -0000
Subject: Seeking Tips from Paradox users

After browsing through all the posts in this forum I found one that stood out and needs to be bumped up closer to the top. It had many helpful tips that I will be incorporating into my boat during the build saving me alot of time and head scratching. Thanks Al for sharing these insights from your long Paradox sailing experience. I'm also hoping to get more people who care to share their tips and tricks to post them here.

Thanks in advance,

Dave


Copied from post #5632::::----------------------------------;)

A couple of weeks ago I was chatting to a guy who had seen me on the beach with Little Jim (as you do) and I explained to him that the boat was as-designed. Later I started to think about what changes I had made and realised that there were quite a lot, nothing major, but lots of little things. To clarify things in my mind I wrote them down, and then thought they might be useful to other builders, so here they are:-

1/ Changes made during construction:

A window in the hatch so that the sail could be seen when the hatch is shut. (This is essential for me, but does have the disadvantage of providing the only place where condensation can form and drip on you in the night)
The topping lift to hold the boom up while reefing.
I left out the lightning rod, that sort of bad weather isn't much of a problem over here (UK).
I made the halyard and the furling line opposite ends of the same piece of rope (you need 12 metres). This means that I only have about 4 feet of loose rope lying about in the cabin

2/ Changes made from experience.

I modified the floor hatch so that there are now 4 rather than 2 hatch covers. This allows the forward sections to be opened without moving the seat.
I have fitted a shelf to the bottom of the aft bins so that all the contents are clear of the bilges. As it was, the smallest amount of water getting in would make these things damp.
I drilled a small hole at the rear lower corner of the side windows so any water on the window ledge can drain out (not sure if this was really worth the effort since I have worked out that I should close the hatch BEFORE the water starts coming in).
I have moved the yuloh pivot about 4 inches nearer the handle. (There is no reason not to have several alternative pivot points)
For fastening the sail to the yard I have moved the grommets onto the side of the sleeve.
To prevent the rudder up haul from dropping off the groove when the rudder kicks up I hang a shackle on the uphaul line between the last fairlead and the cleat.
To stow my folding bicycle I have removed all the partitions in the forward stateroom, cut the opening down to the level of the cabin floor and floored it flush right across. I have only just done this so haven't much experience yet, but it does appear to make the access easier for general stowage.

3/ Things I am considering or would do if I were building again.

Fit the toe rails on the outside rather than on the deck so that they can double as a rubbing strip.
Fit plumbing and ducting (for wiring) and put standard electric bilge pumps in the ballast tanks.
Make the yuloh/sail storage hoops without vertical sections, so that ropes will slip over them instead of getting caught.
The hinges on the floor hatches get fouled with grit and need cleaning/oiling. I would perhaps use fabric hinges or make the boards lift out, as Bill has done on Faith.
If I were to fit an outboard for regular use it would have to go on the transom. My early fears of this location seem to be mostly unfounded. While it still has some problems I believe it is the best of a bad lot.

That's it, I think.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>