From: "Dave" <daveskaife@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 27 Feb 2010 00:05:24 -0000
Subject: Some progress but months and months remain

I'm not in a huge hurry to finish at this point as I have alot of other things going on. But we got all the 2D panels and bulkheads tacked together into a very rough 3D shape finally so I can move around the inside and get a feel for the size or lack of size.

Things I've done other than construction include finding a decent cheap trailer that should work with a few small changes, finding many of the hardware bits I'll need on Ebay, I started this way early to score the best deals instead of paying top dollar when I needed the part to continue. So far, so good. Still needing cam cleats for cheap and a second anchor to name a few items on the list.

My boat usage will be an unusual one to most as I will be fishing from it as I have done with several different sailboats I've had here in Hilo. This Paradox design had most of the features I wanted on my 36 footer already designed in and since Hawaii is changing their fee structure for mooring permits it was a perfect time to switch to a trailerable boat. I never needed a 36 footer anyhow, was just to good of an offer to pass up, probably the only boat I will ever make money on.

Some of the features that should make this boat a good fit are the all-weather inside steering station (we get alot of rain, hot sun, rain showers and wind driven spray where I sail). The small interior means less getting tossed around in rough seas and smaller, lighter, simpler systems to deal with in less than ideal weather (I singlehand my 36 footer and always get banged up moving around to get items from below or reel in a fish outside of the cockpit, plus everything is huge, heavy and expensive). With less space to work with I will be forced to finally simplify my gear and techniques back to my purest beginnings (I caught just as many fish towing handlines from my trimaran speedster as I do from my current 36 foot monohull using 12/0 reels and poles). Being on a trailer I can fish other locations without spending days getting there and back.

Anyhow, just an update

Dave