From: "silkalsahab" <clarkgpaul@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 24 Apr 2010 04:33:48 -0000
Subject: self steering

fairly new to this group, I have been reading through the messages and am about half way. thanks to all the contributors for the many excellent tips and ideas relating to PARADOX.

i also have a set of plans and Don Elliot's fine manual. hope to start my XEO late autumn.

i told myself that i would make no comment until i had finished reading every posting but after reading quite a lot on the subject of self steering thought i should add my two bits.

in '72 i left England in an antiquated gaff ketch, without engine, for British Columbia. the idea was to rig twin head sails for self steering. i could not get them to work and was almost thrown off the foredeck as the boat plunged in worsening conditions off Eddystone. some days later arrived totally exhausted in Spain thinking that i could not continue with the trip as i could not afford a wind vane and hand steering was out of the question.

by good chance i was shown a very simple and effective method of self steering that got me back to BC in one piece.

the system is known as the WEATHER STAYSAIL. i think it could be adapted to PARADOX.

simple and easy to rig, if it does not work not much time and effort will have been expended. the idea is to rig a small flying jib and vang or boom it to weather so that it is a kind of extension to the mainsail. the sheet is brought back to the tiller through a quarter block and the tiller is balanced on the other side by bungy chord. if the boat falls off the wind tension on the sail eases and the bungy makes the correction. if to windward tension increases on the sheet pulling the rudder the other way.

this simple system worked wonderfully well and i never experienced a jibe even running before fresh winds and breaking seas, although as conditions worsened i would "tack" by a few degrees when running down wind.

in the case of PARADOX i would fly the staysail from the fwd end of the yard, tack secured just fwd of the roller reefer. the boom could pivot in a fixture close to tack. because the sail is flown it can be set and handed from the hatch. somehow the sheet will have to find its way to the tiller through a quarter block. bungy adjustments can easily be made inside as can sheet adjustments with a typical tent line tensioner.

the staysail may be thought of as a kind of wind vane set forwd rather than aft well out of the way of hangups.

hope this helps.

paulo
XEO