From: openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: How do I rig my sail for windward ability
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 2010 10:33:46 +0100

Hi Geoff,

I am not sure if I can be of much help, but I can make a few observations. I am using the old sail design so you should be able to out perform me. When sailing to windward make sure the sail is as tight as possible - haul up the halyard and then tighten up hard on the reefing line.

Have you any creases/ripples appearing in the sail? My sail was made by someone who knew little about lug rigs. He should have taken the bending of the yard into account. As it was the top quarter up to the peak wasn't doing much except flapping about, until I modified it, due to the peak of the yard sagging under the load and letting the sail go loose. 

You should be able to point higher. In calm water I expect to be able to point up to about 50 degrees, but in stronger winds/rougher water I found that pointing too high resulted in poorer overall performance, as you loose way. Pointing off a little but keeping the speed up is better. With some of the  leeway prevention coming from the lifting body shape of the hull higher forward speed results in more windward lift and less leeway.

I am fortunate that the waters where I sail are never free from tidal currents, even if only a knot or two, so I tend sail with them and anchor in a foul tide.

In 20 - 25 knot winds are you reefed? I usually start reefing at ~15 knots. To get the best level of reef I usually over reef and then progressively let out a few inches at a time until it feels right. If tacking up a channel this adjustment can be made as you go through the tack. As the sail is reefed I find it points less well. I would not usually bother to attempt a windward sail in over 20kn, but that is mainly a comfort thing.

Last saturday I wanted to get about a miles against a F4 wind and a 1.5kn tide. normally I would have waited for the tide to turn but I thought I might as well be sailing as sitting still. The wind was about as high as I would sail in without reefing. I stayed in the shallows (less than 2 metres) to avoid the worst of the tide but that put me in very choppy, confused waters which constantly washed over the deck. My speed over the ground was consistently less than 2 kn but I finally made it after several hours. 

I have sailed to windward in stronger winds, but it is the state of the water that seems to be the limiting factor. If you have a short chop continually knocking the way off the boat that can make it very difficult.

I hope these ramblings have been of some use.

Hoping for calm nights,

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>