From: "" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Gluing the scarph joint
Date: Mon, 26 Jul 2010 09:36:07 +0100


I've been trying to picture how to set-up the clamping/gluing of the scarph joint for the 3/4" (18mm) panels. I have searched through old posts unsuccessfully to see how others did their set-up.

Here is what I'm considering at the moment:

1) Lay the panels in place on my concrete slab garage (w/plastic between things to prevent bonding to the slab, etc.). I probably will butt one panel against a wall to keep it from moving.

2) Use narrow soft bolts (for easy drillout afterwards) and large washers to secure the panels in place, and act as clamps. I'm thinking about using just two; each a couple of of inches from the outer edges of the panels; that way I wouldn't have any bolts to remove from the hull area, after cutting out the shape of the bottom panel.

3) Add weight (bricks, lead, etc) on top of and along the joint. I'm even wondering if parking one of my vehicles wheels on top of the middle of the joint might help (or borrowing my neighboor's motorcycle instead of the overkill weight of my full size pickup)?

Okay, am I completely nuts and making too much of this? Or have I screwed the pouch and completely set myself up for trouble? Hoping to get feedback from those whom have done this.

You seem to have it about right:-

Lay the boards on a flat surface with plastic under the joint.

Fix the length so the boards can't slip. (remember to allow for the 
thickness of the glue, otherwise there will be a step in the surface 
at the joint)

Add glue and weight it evenly along the joint. I Lay a 4 inch fence post along the top of the joint (with plastic under) to make sure the 
load from the lead bricks was evenly distributed. (more important on 
the thinner side panels)

Don't touch it until you are *sure* that the glue has fully cured.

I think even the motorbike is a bit of overkill. Remember, you will 
need lots of ballast (180kg - that's about 400 pounds) so now is a 
good time to collect it and put it to good use.

Hoping for calm nights

Al,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>