From: "okiebob@ymail.com" <okiebob@ymail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 09 Aug 2010 04:40:35 -0000
Subject: Re: resorcinol

Geoff, I used it for the first time this weekend. It is too early to tell how successful it was. The application process seemed to go smooth.

Although the instructions recommend an outrageous amount of clamping pressure (25-75lbs/sq inch). For a very small surface that is possible, but my surface was more than 300 sq inches; that would be 7,500lbs. Obviously, I didn't apply that much pressure to the joint. I used buckets filled with water, stacked two high (8 buckets in total), about 320lbs, which is only about a 1 lbs/per sq inch. Since I was way under pressure, I've decided to not move anything for the full 6-day cure; I don't know if it will help, but it sure won't hurt. Fortunately, the highs here are around 100 this week (lows around 80). Apparently resorcinol likes heat and pressure.

Also, I am a little concerned that the glue (which I keep refrigerated) may have been too cold when I added the hardener. I never got a flash. I don't know if resorcinol is supposed to have an obvious hot flash like epoxy, but I didn't get one. At the beginning, it went on like wine, then it got sticky like jam.

Clean-up is very easy. Just wipe down things with a damp paper towel before the resorcinol hardens. Spots I missed look like wine stains. I would not recommend drinking wine while working with resorcinol; it looks like a dark red wine, too easy to confuse them. The hardener looks and smells like finely ground sawdust.

Also, it doesn't require much glue. I used about 4 ounces, which was twice the recommended amount for this surface area.

I wore a breathing filter while mixing and applying, but I never smelled any kind of fumes or residue of fumes.

I plan on performing boil and strength tests on the scrap pieces after I cut out the bottom hull. I'll let you know then.

If the strength test goes well, then I'm definitely sold on resorcinol for structural wood joints. For non-structural wood joints, I'm considering Gorilla glue. Regarding fiberglass, I believe epoxy is our strongest alternative since I don't think resorcinol is used to bond fiberglass.

Respectfully,
Bobby
Oklahoma, USA