From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 4 Oct 2010 21:20:45 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Enlarging Paradox.. from FILES doc.

I think if one did enlarge Paradox the existing sail idea should change.. probably to a junk sail like John Welsford uses on SWAGGIE which is also sailed from inside. 

Duckworks has a really nice article about making a junk sail for a small boat with everything worked out for the builder.
http://www.duckworksmagazine.com/06/howto/junkrig/index.htm

I agree that enlargement is more than just expanding by formula. According to Glen-L, there are material thicknesses to think of, added buoyancy, and structural stiffing to think about, when you stretch any boat more than 10% Of course they are talking about stretching boats with regular stations traditionally spaces 18 inches to 3 feet depending on the boat size and hull thickness. Seeing your hull flex in and out while underway can't be a good thing! LOL

Andrew

From: Nels A <arvent@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, October 4, 2010, 5:28 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Enlarging Paradox.. from FILES doc.

Hi Andrew,

Great post! I would like to respond to the following excerpt.

"The most difficult part here was computing the new sail
area (an increase of 68%) and displacement (a 60% increase) which would
put her on her new lines (10.8") and maintain the same sail area to
displacement ratio."

My observation is that increasing the sail area to that extent is going to end up with " a really big roll" of sail around the mast when reefed. Not sure how practical that would work out in reality. Seems I recall that when Sven looked at a bigger, longer version of his "Bris" design he changed it to a schooner rig with two reduced area sails. Getting those two masts into a "tidy" configuration lead to him giving up on that idea.

The other factor is regarding the plywood cutting plan with a beam of almost 5' and a length that would require two scarfs to get that 16' 6.42" LOA.

So one is taking a very simple design into an area that is going to take a whole lot of fiddling and adjusting to accomplish. Not saying it can't be done, just suggesting there is a lot more to it than multiplying everything by a factor of 1.2 or whatever.

Both Bolger and Michalak take into consideration the innate challenge of fitting standard 8' X 4' plywood sheets into their designs and is a prime factor with the elegance of their plans both from an cost and degree of work required to reach a best "bang for the buck" in the finished product.

Nels