From: "rags8mygoat" <raghauler@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 23 Oct 2010 18:35:28 -0000
Subject: Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters

Thanks David, for your input.  

When I finally sat down with the plans and started laying out openings, lengths, widths and heights, I could see that it was going to be a tight fit for me.  I don't mind the small space, mind you, as long as I can function within that space; i.e., reach everything, be able to turn around to reach things behind bulkhead #4, reach and stow things in front of bulkhead #2, enter and exit without contortions, etc.  It would also be nice to occasionally have another aboard for short day-sails.  In lieu of finding a Paradox in my proximity (a few hundred miles, anyway), I'll be left with mocking up the boat in cardboard.

I've looked at many (!) designs, but none have compared to the Paradox in terms of suitability (for me), functionality, completeness of concept, availability of support, and thoroughness of plans. I was even able to acquire a build manual, for crying out loud (I've paid less for both this manual and the plans than I have shelled out in the past for just study plans of many other designs).  This, along with the wealth of information available here as well as other sites certainly puts this boat in a class all her own.

I have noted with great interest the discussions of scaling up the design, but recognize the complexity -not to mention additional cost- that would be introduced into the build process.  Even considering cost and the ensuing headaches, I still think that this design would be worth it, as long as it's performance was not hampered by the alterations, and such alterations were within my capabilities.  I've been plowing through the old posts (currently at #1089) and noting all pertinent concerns and taking copious notes.  A 10% scaled-up certainly seems, on first flush, as doable.  Whether necessary or adequate is another question to be resolved.

I hope that your boat building efforts in Thailand stay with the Paradox design.  Our size shouldn't be a detriment with the boat we love, should it?  That's my struggle, anyway.

Kevin