From: "openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com"
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters
Date: Sun, 24 Oct 2010 08:25:02 +0100


Just want to add little to my previous post:

The length of the main cabin is 190cm. At 6'3", that makes me about
191cm. That's barely tolerable for even one night. Those who are
shorter probably have little idea what it's like to sleep wedged in
from head to foot. Of course it's vaguely possible to stretch out
into the forepeak, but, as designed, number two bulkhead has a
lower lip about 7" high. The other thing that was clearly obvious
was trying to get my frame to reach into the forepeak. It was like
being locked in a refrigerator and trying to turn around. I don't
even want to imagine what that would be like in any kind of waves.
I want to be clear: this is not at all a criticism of Paradox--just
my reality of being 6'3" in a tiny boat.

I have removed the lip on bulkhead two (so I can stow my bicycle) and, 
although I could previously sleep comfortably in the main cabin, now 
sleep further forward with my feet in the forward section.

I don't crawl past bulkhead two except when at anchor (which means 
sheltered water). Anything I need while sailing is stowed within easy 
reach from the cabin. Stuff that is stowed further in is in 
containers which can be easily slid out (now that the lip is 
removed). The only things I store forward of bulkhead one are 
emergency dry clothing/towel/blanket which, hopefully, I will never 
need to access.

I agree that just manoeuvring about inside the cabin with it shut up 
may be more difficult if you are taller. I once spent two nights and 
a day in a storm sitting on a beach and was beginning to feel a bit 
constricted. On the other hand, after a couple of days aboard I find 
I am much more supple than when I started. 

It would also be easily possible to increase the interior height by 
dropping the cabin sole a few inches.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>