From: "giftman44" <giftman44@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 14 Nov 2010 02:54:38 -0000
Subject: Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters

Thanks for that. Very interesting but way out of my $$$$. Truely not a DIY boat.  Matt keeps things simple, functional, yet very safe! 


From: davidandrewallen 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Saturday, October 23, 2010 11:25 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters

Just want to add little to my previous post:
The length of the main cabin is 190cm. At 6'3", that makes me about 191cm. That's barely tolerable for even one night. Those who are shorter probably have little idea what it's like to sleep wedged in from head to foot.
Of course it's vaguely possible to stretch out into the forepeak, but, as designed, number two bulkhead has a lower lip about 7" high.
The other thing that was clearly obvious was trying to get my frame to reach into the forepeak. It was like being locked in a refrigerator and trying to turn around. I don't even want to imagine what that would be like in any kind of waves.
I want to be clear: this is not at all a criticism of Paradox--just my reality of being 6'3" in a tiny boat.
David


From: JMichalsbr@ 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Sat, Oct 23, 2010 2:35 pm
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters

Thanks David, for your input. 
When I finally sat down with the plans and started laying out openings, lengths, widths and heights, I could see that it was going to be a tight fit for me. I don't mind the small space, mind you, as long as I can function within that space; i.e., reach everything, be able to turn around to reach things behind bulkhead #4, reach and stow things in front of bulkhead #2, enter and exit without contortions, etc. It would also be nice to occasionally have another aboard for short day-sails. In lieu of finding a Paradox in my proximity (a few hundred miles, anyway), I'll be left with mocking up the boat in cardboard.
I've looked at many (!) designs, but none have compared to the Paradox in terms of suitability (for me), functionality, completeness of concept, availability of support, and thoroughness of plans. I was even able to acquire a build manual, for crying out loud (I've paid less for both this manual and the plans than I have shelled out in the past for just study plans of many other designs). This, along with the wealth of information available here as well as other sites certainly puts this boat in a class all her own.
I have noted with great interest the discussions of scaling up the design, but recognize the complexity -not to mention additional cost- that would be introduced into the build process. Even considering cost and the ensuing headaches, I still think that this design would be worth it, as long as it's performance was not hampered by the alterations, and such alterations were within my capabilities. I've been plowing through the old posts (currently at #1089) and noting all pertinent concerns and taking copious notes. A 10% scaled-up certainly seems, on first flush, as doable. Whether necessary or adequate is another question to be resolved.
I hope that your boat building efforts in Thailand stay with the Paradox design. Our size shouldn't be a detriment with the boat we love, should it? That's my struggle, anyway.
Kevin 


From: rags8mygoat <raghauler@>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Sat, Oct 23, 2010 2:35 pm
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Not to beat a dead horse... but size matters

Speaking of dead horses: is there a reason that Paradox has to be as heavy as it is? The biggest impediment to scaling up to allow two to sleep aboard seems to be the enormous weight increase and consequences for trailing, launching, etc. I had assumed that the weight was needed for a combination of strength, stability, and (especially) getting hull deep enough to provide lateral plane. Then along comes Enigma, and, more recently Enigma 460. And the 460 seems to sail just fine. What's her trailer weight, I wonder? And what would it be if it were, say, 17ft? Why not an enlarged Paradox with somewhat lighter sides and deck, and a bit less ballast? What am I missing here?
Jeff Michals-Brown