From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 2 Jan 2011 12:54:57 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: built in toilets

Hello in Thunder Bay.
I was living there till two years ago and had intended to build a Paradox. My plans have changed with the move, but It is still a good plan. That area is one of the best ever cruising grounds......
My intention was to carry a ~ 4"dia. PVC pipe with a tight screw lid. This can be used for solid waste. Do the business on a coffee filter or similar, and place the whole thing inside. Several days worth will fit reasonably easily. All is biodegradable and can be buried in the woods. If I remember the holding tank is required if you have a toilet......
JG

From: Kim Harrison <giftman44@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, January 2, 2011 7:11:43 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] built in toilets

Hi Fred.
I also have just purchased build plans and sail in Ontario waters on the north shore of Lake Superior out of Thunder Bay Harbour so I also share your head issue. I have a 27' fg factory coastal cruiser with a marine head. It is made of porcelin with a ss holding tank. Far too heavy, large, and clumbsy for Paradox. I have found a plastic holding tank &amp; toilet from Binacle but still far too large. I could have a smaller plastic tank custom made without laying out too much gold. An elecrtical toilet is also out of the question due to the hudro issue.I'm going to research RV toilets. So far I'm no farther ahead.
 
Kim

From: frederic.fransen <ffransen@donoradvising.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] built in toilets
Date: Friday, December 31, 2010, 4:19 PM

I'm moving closer to taking the plunge and starting a build, but continue to have a couple of questions. I plan to sail a lot in the Great Lakes, and on the Canadian side, at least,this requires a "built-in" toilet. Some small boats solve this by bolting in a port-a-pottie, but I've been seeking in vain for information on toilet solutions in the Paradox.

Fred