From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 21 Jan 2011 07:42:22 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: The Paradox ZOE is listed for sale on Sailing Texas classifieds.

Glen Maxwell, the former owner, is kindly providing all the plans, etc. And I've read the history (maybe I should print up brochures to hand out on such occasions;) Anyway, I look forward to taking it out in two or three months, when my time less constrained. The part I most look forward to is getting a comfortable seat, and just relaxing and sailing. Scurrying about a deck and tweaking lines etc. is not my style.

From: openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, January 21, 2011 3:37:34 AM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: The Paradox ZOE is listed for sale on Sailing Texas classifieds.

On 20 Jan 2011 at 20:50, Mark Hamilton wrote:

I live in the SF east bay. Yes I'd love to sail in tandem sometime. First I have to take a few lessons this spring. I'm so raw don't even know what the three sail lines are that I see in the cabin (I am sure one is to raise the sail).. LOL...

I can't imagine a lug sail is that complicated - at least I hope not. My last experience was aboard a volksboat and the capt. spent most of the time tuning, changing, and futzing while I sat there and drank beer.

You are right, it isn't complicated. I too started with little sailing experience. I held the boat head to wind while I hoist sail, then let it blow off. I then followed instructions given to me many (many) years ago by a friend of my grandfather - point the boat where you want to go and pull in the sheet until you start moving.

In time you may find tweaks to make it a little more efficient but that works ok for a start. You will find that Paradox is *very* forgiving of human error. Accidental gibes are quite benign and, if properly ballasted, you can't capsize.

Oh, and make sure you have the history of the design at your fingertips. If your side of the pond is anything like this side, every time you land on a beach someone will want to know all about it.

Enjoy yourself.

-- 
Hoping for calm nights

Alastair Law, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>