From: "Geoff" <geoffdavis67@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 13 Mar 2011 03:42:52 -0000
Subject: Re: Small Fry rounds Cape Leeuwin

Pete,

I started in the Swan River at Perth. Late at night the wind and tide were in my favour which allowed me to sail under the bridges at Fremantle, through the harbour, and out past Garden Island. I had pretty good conditions and made it as far as Bunker Bay (near Cape Naturaliste). I anchored there for a night, tried to head further south the next night but wind and waves didn't cooperate. The next next night I managed to make some progress south, but things got tricky by the time I neared cape Leeuwin. I rode out the choppy conditions somewhat out to sea and into and the next day managed to make it in to Hamlin Island which is only about 10 miles or so north of Cape Leeuwin. I dragged anchor that night and ended up on the beach, I cursed a bit at the time, but it is all just part of the adventure now, anyway, in the morning got off the beach and headed south. Very good conditions until right near the cape... then wind and waves tried their best to stop any further progress... but it was just right there and I really didn't want to head back, so I just kept trying over and over... and... well... finally got there which I was very happy about. All up my cruise lasted for about two weeks. 

You're right about this coast having a lot of reef, but I found although that is not a good place to be when it is windy, there were also some times when the wind was light, off shore, and very little swell. At those times the reef areas made for very interesting exploring... though I would never have dared go in there in a boat with a keel. I cut it very fine in a few places, but didn't realy worry since the worst that was likely to happen was a few scratches on Small Fry's bottom.

Just for the record, for my whole two week cruise I used only about a quarter of food and water on board (maybe a little more, I didn't measure exactly). I guess the paradox could very easily carry all one needs for a one month cruise and maybe up to two months with careful planning and packing.

Cheers,
Geoff.