From: John Gilbert <gilberj55@yahoo.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Small Fry rounds Cape Leeuwin
Date: Thu, 17 Mar 2011 21:09:34 -0700 (PDT)

Thanks for the descriptions here. This is pretty much as I thought. for a couple of years I was tooling up to build a Paradox, (with some mods to meet my requirements) but no-one has described sailing in rough conditions in a Paradox, ( not quite true because Al of Little Jim fame described a trip with some rough conditions). The thing is the big difference between the Paradox and other micro-cruisers. Most of the others are for sheltered waters and nearly sheltered waters, as open boats and partially open boats.
I'd appreciate it if you could write about your adventures describing the performance of the Paradox in the real cruising near coastal passages.

From: Geoff <geoffdavis67@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Small Fry rounds Cape Leeuwin
Date: Thu, March 17, 2011 3:32:48 AM

Thanks Dave,

It's always the way isn't it, so many things to do and not enough time to do everything... make sure you do the best things and leave the rest on the bottom of the pile :)

No water gets through the hatch on Small Fry, though I did deviate from the plan here and put in a hinged hatch, not a sliding hatch. The hatch dogs down tight against a layer of high density foam gasket tape which is very effective.

I have, however, had some water get in via the rudder hole in the transom... but only in stupidly rough conditions while running and the occasional wave breaks over the stern... actually one time in 2008 a really big wave broke over SF from astern such that when I looked up through the hatch window all I could see was white water. I was lucky not to get wiped out and hope never to experience such conditions again. Anyway, needless to say, I got a squirt of cold water in the back which entered with such force it used the baffle as a launch ramp. Having said that, even in silly conditions, the amount of water which got in was merely a matter of discomfort, not dangerous amounts. I bailed out about 10 litres after a dawn til dusk sail on that occasion. Going to windward, even in very rough seas, no water gets aboard.

The vent is adequate to windward. I have noticed things getting a little steamy downwind, but this is exacerbated as I have to work harder at steering, particularly when it is rough enough to need to close the hatch. I wouldn't suggest altering the design though, Matt has things just about right and has obviously put a lot of experience and knowledge into this design already. Every time I'm enjoying sailing in SF I think of Matt's generosity in making his plans available.

Cheers,
Geoff.
