From: "" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 18 Mar 2011 10:04:06 -0000
Subject: Re: Small Fry rounds Cape Leeuwin


My concern on ventilation is that I will be sailing in warmer waters than most. I will probably need to install a 12v fan on the inside of the vent box just above where the lines exit it. For when the hatch needs to be closed..

I can't comment on how it behaves in warmer waters except to observe that it was designed to be sailed off the Florida coast. An air scoop could easily be installed on the deck opening.

I also might try and put a lip on the top of the baffle to stop water from shooting off of that and soaking the whole stern compartment and my back.

I shouldn't get too hung up on this. In 6 years sailing I have once had about a mug full of water get in this way and that was when I had beached the boat and the waves were breaking against the transom.

My best advice for keeping the inside dry is to invest in one of those super-absorbent door-mats. Every time you set off from a beach you bring aboard water and sand/mud on your feet. Put the door-mat on the floor and you catch it at source. 

My last experience with tiny boats in big water was a wet one. The sliding hatch was closed tight yet waves that found their way on deck squirted an ounce of water into the boat, easy to bail but everything got wet, after a couple of days it got old. With such low freeboard the hatch had to be closed most of the time, that boat just wasn't made for big water. Paradox will be a much better all-weather type of boat.

If the hatch is constructed as designed then, when fully shut, no water will come in, though if left slightly open some may get under the front. On one of my early trips, when I didn't have any idea what I was doing, I sailed through a tide race with wind-against-tide. There was solid green water washing over the cabin (if I had been in any sort of a boat with a cockpit I would undoubtedly have been swamped). Not a drop came in and the boat performed as if this was all quite normal (I was throwing up in a bucket, which is also fairly normal).

-- 
Hoping for calm nights

Alastair Law,      
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>