From: "Geoff" <geoffdavis67@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 18 Mar 2011 13:33:55 -0000
Subject: Re: Small Fry rounds Cape Leeuwin

Hi John,

For a boat the size of the paradox she handles rough water remarkably well. I wouldn't recommend deliberately sailing in big seas, it is so much nicer to sail in flat water... but should you get caught out, as I have a few times, the paradox will look after you. The biggest seas I've experienced were around 4 to 5 meters. I ended up running under bare poles, not because it was too strong to carry sail but I happened to break the reefing gear through a series of accidental gybes while I was concentrating on the phone instead of where I was steering (oops!). Anyway, I had a choice of full sail or no sail... under no sail I was still making 3 to 4 knots. Finally I was as far down wind as I needed to be, raised full sail and screamed off on a reach toward a sheltered bay trying to spill what wind I could from the sail by having it well eased... but even so the gps repeatedly hit double digit speeds (yes in knots). I wasn't exactly in control but I had enough moments of semi control to make it to the bay. Anyway, I guess the point of the story is that Small Fry survived those conditions quite happily enough... (ok, maybe there was a dose of luck in my favour too). I won't be trying to repeat the experience.

Many other occasions I've encountered seas of about 2 to 3 metres and average winds around 25 knots. I've been able to sail slowly, pointing to windward, but not really making much progress to windward (none actually) under about 50% (or less) of the total sail area. While this doesn't get me where I want to go, it does seem to be a reasonably comfortable way of riding out the conditions until a favorable change arrives. By lashing the steering line Small Fry looks after herself allowing me to sleep, eat, take photos, ponder how I came to be sitting in a grey ocean miles from anywhere in a tiny plywood box, etc. Provided the paradox keeps her bow as much as possible toward the waves I've never felt any danger in these conditions... though that may just mean I have a poor awareness of danger ;) I think the paradox sails better to windward on the port tack... but I'm not sure if this is true or just my imagination.

Cheers,
Geoff.