From: steveh2992 <sdhender@sbcglobal.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Paradox "kit" for sale
Date: Wed, 30 Mar 2011 07:59:21 -0700 (PDT)

Several years ago I started building a Paradox. Soon after I started building, I got married and my wife wanted something bigger, so after some wringing of hands and procrastination, I've decided to offer up my Paradox parts and supplies for sale. Of course, I'd like to recoup some of the cost of the supplies, but mainly I'd like to clear out some space in the basement. 

Roughly, here's what I've got: all beams are laminated from Douglas Fir (DF) (except one)..they have not been trimmed to size; mast is laminated DF, but not been faired, it has been wired for a masthead light; both yards (DF) have been faired, could use more fairing if you are more meticulous than myself, which is quite likely; some of the big pieces have been cut from marine plywood; marine plywood for the remaining pieces; silicone bronze nails; sheave and axle for halyard; a few other pieces of hardware like the post for the rudder stock; some pieces of DF for internal framing. I used Systems 3 epoxy for the laminations. Plans included, and also the instruction booklet by Don Elliott. There's about a hundred pounds of lead (wheel weights.) No epoxy or fiberglass cloth, no sail.

The marine plywood does not have a Lloyds of London number or any such pedigree. It is from a specialty lumber yard in Kansas City (Shutte Lumber.) 

I live in Kansas City, Missouri. About once a month I make a trip to East Texas and could arrange to deliver to a buyer anywhere along or close to that route. 

If you want to build a Paradox, would like to save a little money on materials, don't mind having some parts that you did not build yourself, contact me and we'll see what we can work out. I'd like to get about $500 for what I've listed. If you are planning to use regular fir plywood, this "deal" may not save you much of anything. However, if you plan to use marine plywood, it will save you some. Plus, some of the more tedious work has been done. It will allow you to more quickly get into the phases of building where you see some results that look like a boat. Once I start bundling the supplies up, other items will likely surface that I've forgotten about.

Give me a call or e-mail if you are interested: 816-8one3-578five or sdhender at sbcglobal.net

Thanks. Good luck to all builders and builders-to-be. The Paradox is a super boat. If I hadn't gotten married to a woman who likes sailing, I'd have finished the Paradox I started and be enjoying it by now.