From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: paradox torrents
Date: Tue, 3 May 2011 23:47:14 -0700 (PDT)

Yes to all your questions and most estimate 1000 hours total construction time, but that can be trimmed if one is not too fussy about the cosmetic detail work. Good results can be achieved with A/C exterior plywood and coating it inside and out with epoxy (called encapsuelating) The Boat is a snappy boat and should be great fun in events. Matt has competed with all his boats as far as I know.

Dave and Mindy of microcruising.com have Little Cruiser, which is Matt's predecessor to the Paradox.. The have many pics of them and sailing Matt's boats on their page at http://microcruising.com/ then click Little Cruiser on the right then pictures... also check their archive articles.

My opinion is one might give thought to the stretched 16ft Paradox.. the description is in the group files section. That would give lots more room for people and for stores and still be easily trailable.

It would be my choice if I were building from scratch.

Andrew

From: Johan Van dyk <smilicus@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: paradox torrents
Date: Tuesday, May 3, 2011, 9:22 AM

Thanks for the reply Mike

I will basically be sailing with my wife and thus Svends project will be a bit on the tight side. The reason why I like the paradox is because it is compact, enough space for 2 to sail and sleep, no keel that can get in the way when one is exploring estuaries, rivers, and dams. But it can still take some pounding at sea, where I will do most of my sailing. I will be able to launch and sail on my own if needed and with no halyards, I can raise the main by myself. All in all this is the best option for my currently.

I would like to know from you who have build a Paradox the following:

1. Completion time (would like to get on the water before I am grey)
2. Basic Material needs (work in the charity industry, so budget is important)
3. Will it be able to occasionally cruise/race in the Wednesday round the can races? (phrf rating, handicap rating for paradox?)
4. If there is a picture of two people stretched out on the floor of the cabin

Thanks for all the help to date

Smilicus

http://sailingcatch22.blogspot.com