From: paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Johanna
Date: Wed, 25 May 2011 18:31:33 -0000


thanks everyone for all the kind words. They say the camera doesn't lie but it does. She's not nearly as good to look at in the flesh!

Unfortunately work gets in the way this weekend and then, as you rightfully say, Beale Park is upon us. You're right that I've entered the ABBA competition, not in anyway hoping to pick up any awards, but it gave me a real target to work for which is unmovable and it helps promote the design, with 2 of us being there. Maybe she'll be launched for the first time there. There's a small window of opportunity this Sunday, but it would have to be at the Cotswold lakes. Hoping to get to Poole harbour and beyond for a proper shakedown by the end of June. 

I had fun and games rigging her yesterday. There is a definite knack to furling that sail. I've got a couple of whooper blisters on my fingers, partly through my own incompetence.

There does seem to be a bit too much friction in the system so I'll have to check things over and see where I've gone wrong. First blister occurred when hauling on the downhaul without realising that the halyard had cleated itself. It doesn't matter how hard you pull the sail won't furl.  After a couple of successful furls I then got to a situation where it just wouldn't furl the last few feet. it was as if the something had jammed. further investigation showed the major drop off. I hadn't wound enough line on the furling drum, and after several raises and lowering the sail started to wrap itself more tightly on the boom. Of course this meant more revolutions per furl, and I had run out of line on the drum! Lesson number two pulling with all your worth against an empty drum just rips flesh. I did also notice that it got progressively harder to furl as the sail lowered. Again I discovered that filling the drum with line improved the purchase with the apparent larger radius drum. You'll be able to show me all your tricks at Beale.

Pete