From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: A Streatched Pardox
Date: Mon, 30 May 2011 00:29:25 -0700 (PDT)

There is a file in the FILES section of the group called Larger Paradox which discusses stretching Paradox.

Remember in stretching you can only do it so far usually up to 20% before one has to begin considering redesigning to maintain the structural integrity. Wood thickness needs to be changed and usually additional bulkheads and keel reinforcement is necessary.. then there is the rigging.

Andrew



From: john dean <johndean61840@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: A Streatched Pardox
Date: Sunday, May 29, 2011, 5:01 PM


Why not onsider streatching the basic concepts. Could you store a 5 foot by 20 foot Paradox like boat on your property. Sharpies have been built in all lengths.
Cheers John Dean


From: openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Living ability for 2
Date: Sunday, May 29, 2011, 2:01 PM



The Paradox will carry 2 without any problem but in the standard form the second person has to be down below, which is not good on a nice summer day.

I have given some thought to this and my best solution would be to replace the plywood cabin roof, and hatch, with canvas. Then, with the roof removed a second seat could be inserted at bulkhead 3 so that the crew would sit in front of the skipper.

This would, of course, reduce the ultimate seaworthiness, but it would still probably be safer than any open dinghy.

On 29 May 2011 at 10:13, Johan Van dyk wrote:

Hey guys

Been looking a lot at the Paradox as my next build.  THe little boat
with a lot of capability.  The only thing that I am still not sure is
is about the iterior (for 2).  Not a lot of people have written or are
using their Paradox 2 up...mostly are single sailing.  

I will be sailing solo most of the times, but would like the option to
take my wife a long. I am also looking at the extended version of the
paradox as an option.

One of the main reason this boat will be the right fir for me is ease
of launch,has chine runners instead of centerboar/keel (nice for
lagoons, ect) and that I can sail the entire year and do not need to
take off in winter due to rain and cold.

I will be mostly sailing at sea (in the bay) so will be mostly
sheltered water.  Wont sleep 2 up on the Paradox, but will sail
occasionally 2 up. I have read Micro cruising by Dave and Mindi and
this gave me some idea 

My question is this -  What is your thoughts and experiences on
sailing 2 up and would you recommend it.

-----

No virus found in this message.

Checked by AVG - www.avg.com

Version: 10.0.1375 / Virus Database: 1509/3666 - Release Date:
05/28/11