From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Thu, 9 Jun 2011 10:28:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: The Classic Paradox Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport

Thank you. I thought I had died and gone to heaven when Zoe was purchased...not just because it was a Paradox but because the reputation for the build was that I got one of the best in quality and detailing. And I am sure Glen feels even worse. She was a sweet looking boat and my sadness for fleet and our faith in Paradox's has taken a blow. The trucker feels bad about it too - although I think there is more to the story than I am being told. And only now is he discovering (after talking to Glen and I) the real value of the boat to us and the community.

No, I won't give up my dream. It will be interesting to see what a boat-builder will charge. I kinda triple material cost - but some have told me my estimate of 13,500 is way to low. On the other hand it would be an opportunity to do some additional detailing.

LOL...when I told one builder it was a 'micro-cruser' he kinda laughed...it will be an interesting experience showing these traditionalists a keel-less and center-boardless boat. I expect some scoffing.

Thanks again fellows. 

From: boldav38 <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 9 Jun 2011 09:15:00 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: The Classic Paradox  Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport


Mark, I'm so sorry for your loss. I personally have been aboard ZOE and she really was an incredible boat. Glen did an amazing job of building and refining her, and it really is a tragic loss.  The only advice I can make now is that you don't abandon your dream and that you continue looking for another Paradox or Layden designed cruiser. They do pop up from time to time, and I'll let you know if I see anything. Your idea of getting another one made also sounds reasonable. It might be a good idea to get some construction quotes from some professional builders like Glen to present to the insurance company. 

Best of luck, 

Dave