From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: The Classic Paradox Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport
Date: Fri, 10 Jun 2011 10:24:36 -0700 (PDT)

Thanks. However, after interacting with him more I am fairly certain that it was an accident. The guy provided more detail and I think I saw the reason that it burned so readily - when I mentioned that I feared a traffic accident in shipment, he told me that would have been far better...that he wrapped the boat and trailer in alot of padding, so much so that he thought it would survive a major crash. In the back of my mind I thought that all that padding must have fueled the fire.

Also, I can't imagine any 'red neck' trucker having any interest in the paradox. It is almost totally unknown to ordinary folk (now, if it were a 30K bass boat then I might be suspecious). 

The photos are only ashes and metal framing with breadbox sized ash lumps here and there - but in the end, the cause is does not matter. Zoe is gone and now I will have to deal with his insurance company. 

On the bitter sweet side, I had a long talk with a Berkeley CA yacht builder. He seemed friendly enough, but when I sent him some Internet links on Zoe and the Paradox he called me back excited. As he reviewed the design elements with me he would discover some little nice touch and seemed impressed. For example, he asked how the sail was raised and after I pointed out the roller furl, and that it was raised from the bottom, he saw the advantage in high winds with the reefed sail having a low center of effort. And the chine runner concept made sense to him...

By the end of our talk, he was telling me what a hit the Zoe would have been at his boat shows...so I was pleased but also sad. Anyway I expect builder quotes next week and we will see what the "pro" would charge. I am guessing 18-24K.


From: "farreach@optonline.net" <farreach@optonline.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: The Classic Paradox Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport
Date: Friday, June 10, 2011 6:10 AM

I beg your pardon, but I'm from New York and well I guess we tend to be conspiracy theorists. Are you sure the remains of the fire are of the boat? One could easily take the boat off the trailer, replace it with bits of wood or some other boat, put it all back into the container trailer and set it ablaze. If you think the trucker is not telling you the entire story, then a more thorough investigation seems warranted. 

My condolences,
rick