From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 15 Jun 2011 21:18:19 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: The Classic Paradox Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport

Thank you, I would like to see your paradox. Only know am I accepting the shock of Zoe's destruction - it seemed so unreal and unlikely. Thankfully she served Glen for many good years and inspired many. And I am going to keep the dream and perhaps own something like it someday. In the meantime, I would like to see the boat - everything I knew of it was via the Internet.
 
And while a commercial build is highly unlikely, I am waiting for quotes from Berkeley Yahgt Center (he will also offer a fiberglass panel alternative to plywood). He is intrigued by Matt's boat.

So thanks again, I'll be in touch.

From: mwatersworld <mwatersworld@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wednesday, June 15, 2011 5:19 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: The Classic Paradox  Boat "Zoe" Destroyed in Transport

I don't visit the forum as often as I should so it is only today I read the sad news. Like so many others here I am absolutely stunned by the loss. Glen set the bar high when he built "Zoe" and I'm sure that accounts for why there have been so many high quality Paradoxes since. When I was building my Paradox "Raffles" I always had the plans laid out side by with photos of "Zoe." Glen led the way for many of us. I've often reflected that it's on the highway a boat is in the most danger but I never thought of fire as the cause.

Does anyone know if all the images of "Zoe" are still available somewhere? I have a number of photocopies of images that no longer seem to be online. Same goes for Bill Sargeant's "Faith." I know there were times when it was only by looking at a photo that the plans made sense.

Mark, I'm not too far from you here in Sacramento so if you ever want or need to come out and see my boat you're welcome. Living so far inland she hasn't seen the water for a couple of years but hopefully soon I'll move back closer to the coast.

Keep us posted on discussions with the builder.

Mark