From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 8 Jul 2011 20:35:17 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Re: Considering Having Paradox Built for Me.

Good suggestions so far. 

I don't know about a washboard. I am new to sailing so I am not sure that I understand the term properly, but it means just sitting on the aft deck with one's feet hanging in the cockpit (I used to fly) then I'm probably so-so on that. I like a good back supported seat. 

Venting is important to me. I can't stand high heat and in calm seas would luv a breeze blowing threw. Maybe I need fans rather than open windows? (think I saw those in Zoe).

Another couple of questions...

If paradox actually rolled upside down, will water come up through the sliding hatch? 

And I have yet to read why Matt put the mast off the centerline...wonder why.

From: Jeffrey Michals-Brown <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Considering Having Paradox Built for Me.
Date: Friday, July 8, 2011 7:13 PM

Several builders have put a drop board in the back of the house so they can sit on the aft deck and dangle feet comfortably over the sill. I'd go for that myself, though many have argued it's too risky in a knockdown. If you want safety, I'd avoid any ventilation opening that would be likely to take water in a knockdown. The vent trunk is supposed to be good ventilation--maybe with an air scoop outside in hot weather. Maybe (just maybe) a small forward centerline hinged window?

From: maxp90 <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: paradoxbuilders <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Considering Having Paradox Built for Me.
Sent: Fri, Jul 8, 2011 2:47 pm

After the loss of Zoe, I am considering having a paradox built for me. It's going to be pricey, but as these boats go for sale so infrequently I think if I really want one, that will be the best option.

So while I am thinking about it, I thought I'd run a few modification ideas by the group and ask if they had any other mods they'd make.

For example, if one wanted extreme safety (as I would on the Pacific Coast) would I be better off with a hinged hatch rather than a sliding hatch? Would that not be water tight?

Might two hatchs be installed (one forward as well) for two people to poke their head out? But then, what to do with the solar array?

I am big on air circulation. Might hinged side or front windows be useful?