From: Glen Wilkes <gwilkes@carolinaone.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2011 10:10:50 -0400
Subject: Re: Update on ENDEAVOUR

What would you gain by doing it?  What would you lose by doing it?  If what
you would gain far outweighs what you would lose, go for it!  Change is
always good.  Nothing ventured, nothing lost.  Make it your own, a lot more
exciting a build for you then I'm sure.

On Fri, Jul 29, 2011 at 8:35 AM, <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com> wrote:

If it ain't broke, why fix it?

It would be easy to change Paradox, a lot harder to improve it.

On 29 Jul 2011 at 11:04, Greg Lockhart wrote:

I have an idea I want to share with forum and hopefully get some
feedback on.

I mentioned in my last post that ENDEAVOUR was "bulkhead ready"...they
were all sealed, faired, painted, and so on. While I was looking at
them all laid out in their approximate station locations, I had an
idea that has caused me two (2) sleepless nights thus far.

I have been on the hunt for something I could do or change on my
PARADOX to set it apart from the others...I didn't want to justmake
another "cookie cutter" boat. So here is what I propose....

On bulkhead #2, the big bad boy with the forward "stateroom" hatch and
the beloved vent trunk...I'm thinking of changing it so I can
incorporate a tabernacle for my mast instead of basically a step with
a cabinet around it. I want to take out the vent trunk and build
basically a square hollow column from bootom of the bulkhead to the
top which would be deck height. All sail controll lines could still
come in through this just like on the vent trunk, and basically I
would have the same set up just all in a vertical arrangement instead
of an angle type set up the plans call for.

I also want to ust two (2) small dorade vents on port and starboard at
the fron corners of the cabin area to pump in fresh air while
underway.

So if anybody wants to offer advice or tell me why this wouldn't work,
I would appreciate it very much....

In the meantime....Safe Passages To All,
"G"