From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Cross Atlantic in a Paradox?
Date: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 08:46:12 -0700 (PDT)

I think it might be so now for the following reasons.

1. The provisions and storage for weeks even months at sea has largely been overcome by freeze dried backpacking type meals at low prices. CostCo sells a month of meals in a 5 gal bucket complete with deserts and snacks for around $80. One can carry a tiny hand pump water maker like for lifeboats to extend range of cruising at sea.

2. There has been an ongoing international competition now called "around in Ten" which is to see whether a 10 foot boat can circumnavigate the globe. http://www.duckworksmagazine.com/08/gatherings/ait/index.htm seems the around in ten website is not up now, but it did spur a lot of rapid development.

To that end both individuals and commercial architects have been designing boats to do it. Paul Fisher (of Selway-Fisher) have developed an 8 foot ocean crossing boat... see it here The MICRO 8 MINI YACHT (they also designed a ten footer) http://www.selway-fisher.com/PCup16.htm#INI

3. The Paradox is pretty much self-righting and self-rescuing up to around 120 degrees of heel.. assuming the passengers are lashed to the floor and the boat is sealed against water intrusion. Theoretically... release the sheet so the water doesn't hold the sail down and it should pop right up again. There is a stability chart somewhere in group files.

There is a downside and that is without much room to move about and get exercise one can get muscle atrophy to where when you do reach land you may need some physical therapy to even get about... like someone confined to a hospital bed for many weeks. The passage from the Eastern US to the Azores has been done in 26 days but I think the average is actually closer to 5 weeks. That is a long time to be confined mostly immobile sitting or lying in something the size of a large bathtub.

But the Paradox is very tough and well designed and the food and water limitations have been breached. I think it is surely capable of the relatively easy passage from the Eastern US coast to the Azores with the help of the gulf stream and westerlies during some parts of the year.

A modified 16 foot Great Pelican sailboat has sailed from San Diego to Hilo Hawaii already and while extremely stable and resistant to capsize.. it IS NOT self-righting or self-rescuing.. like a small catamaran if it goes over fully loaded it is hard to right it.

Andrew