From: Dennis Mingear <dennismingear@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Cross Atlantic in a Paradox?
Date: Fri, 26 Aug 2011 09:39:23 -0700 (PDT)

I've thought a little about this too Andres. I have an idea that may have already been done, but maybe not. Why not make or adapt a small recumbent exercise bike that drives the water maker through an appropriate linkage. Some folding bikes could provide considerable inspiration for something like that. 


That way you work for your water and it should take very little energy to drive the water maker. In fact, you may need some adjustable drag in the system to provide some resistance, at least for some of the time spent while making your water.

Denny ...


From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Cross Atlantic in a Paradox?
Date: Fri, August 26, 2011 8:46 AM

I think it might be so now for the following reasons.

1 The provisions and storage for weeks even months at sea has largely been overcome by freeze dried backpacking type meals at low prices. CostCo sells a month of meals in a 5 gal bucket complete with deserts and snacks for around $80 One can carry a tiny hand pump water maker like for lifeboats to extend range of cruising at sea.

2 There has been an ongoing international competition now called "around in Ten" which is to see whether a 10 foot boat can circumnavigate the globe. seems the around in ten website is
 not up now,, but it did spur a lot of rapid development.


To that end both individuals and commercial architects have been designing boats to do it. Paul Fisher (of Selway-Fisher) have developed an 8 foot ocean crossing boat... see it here The MICRO 8 MINI YACHT (they also designed a ten footer)
http://www.selway-fisher.com/PCup16.htm#INI

3 The Paradox is pretty much self righting and self rescuing up to aroung 120 degrees of heel.. assuming the passengers are lashed to the floor and the boat is sealed against water intrusion. Theoretically... release the sheet so the water doesnt hold the sail down and it should pop right up again. There is a stability chart somewhere in group files.

There is a downside and that is without much room to move about and get exercise one can get muscle atrophy to where when you do reach land you may
 need some physical therapy to even get about... like someone confined to a hospital bed for many weeks. The passage from the Eastern US to the Azores has been done in 26 days but I think the average is actually closer to 5 weeks. That is a long time to be confined mostly immobile sitting or lying in something the size of a large bathtub.

But the Paradox is very tough and well designed and the food and water limitations have been breached. i think it is surely capable of the relatively easy passage from the Eastern US coast to the Azores with the help of the gulf stream and westerlies during some parts of the year.

A modified 16 foot Great Pelican sailboat has sailed from San Diego to Hilo Hawaii already and while extremely stable and resistant to capsize.. it IS NOT self righting or self rescuing.. like a small catamaran if it goes over fully loaded it is hard to right it.

Andrew

From: sandraduncan03 <sandraduncan03@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Cross Atlantic in a Paradox?
Date: Fri, August 26, 2011 1:25 AM
 
Hello,

Have been reading heaps of books and articles about crazy sailing adventures, such as serge testa circumnavigating in a 12 foot boat and some guy crossed the Atlantic on a hobie cat.

Just wondering about paradoxes sea worthiness.

What would happen to paradox in a storm at sea?

And do you think an ocean crossing is possible in a paradox?

What would need to be changed to paradox to make it more sea worthy? Fixed keel with heavy ballast? Would she just roll over in heavy conditions?

Been looking at 10 foot boats that have crossed oceans and they seem to be built the same way as paradox. Same thickness marine ply hull, stitch and glue etc.

Could the paradox do it?

Just a hypothetical :)