From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Facebook
Date: Sun, 28 Aug 2011 17:08:21 -0700 (PDT)

Facebook is better if what one wants is to contact and be contacted by friends of friends of friends of friends etc. It would be a fun way for paradox folks to chit chat and so on. Facebook is harder to store files and links and photos are mostly your own and others have pics on their facebook page.

For technical support and as a resource I think the Yahoo or Google group format is better.

I have a facebook page and never log into it unless I get an email from facebook saying I have a message or something.

Andrew

From: barnacleid <barnacleid@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Sunday, August 28, 2011 5:21 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Facebook

What are the advantages of Facebook over Yahoo!?

The Yahoo! paradoxbuilders group is well-established with many members and large resources in terms of photos and files. Subjects can be searched for in the archives which are full of valuable information for those wanting to build a Paradox and for people wanting advice. Contributors like Al and Glen have given so much over the years. All of that stuff is there to be had for free.

Yahoo! is also far less intrusive for the individual than Facebook. I left Facebook for that very reason.

You'll have to persuade me with a well-reasoned argument what is to be gained by another Paradox forum, and I might go along with it and join you there - assuming you would want me.

I doubt you were a member of the very first Yahoo! Paradox group, formed by the late Don Elliott who was very intolerant of anyone who did not go along with his views. A good many members were expelled for expressing their opinions.

The present Yahoo! paradoxbuilders group was formed to accommodate dissenters and for those who wanted a freer environment, but there was a loss of resources, because Don was such an excellent artist who illustrated the process of building a Paradox.

I belonged to both groups and I found it time-consuming to catch up with what was going.

I appreciate that things don't stand still, and that there's always room for improvent and for making things better.

Let me hear your side of the story please, then you may convince me for the need of another Paradox forum.

Yours,
Bill.
http://bills-log.blogspot.com

PS I shall be cross-posting this to the paradoxbuilders group.