From: Andres Espino <ima_very_cool_cowboy@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 14:14:59 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: CHANGING PLANS.. advice from Glen-L (boat plans company)

CHANGING PLANS
One reason for building your own boat is getting exactly the boat you want, which presumes finding a perfect stock plan an often difficult if not impossible quest. The other alternative is to commission a custom design. But most don't want to pay the price.

The solution? Find a stock plan that comes as close as possible to what you want and change it accordingly. If the changes are extensive, you should at least contact the boat's designer to see if such changes are feasible. If so, you may want to hire him to make the changes if you feel they are beyond your ability without supplemental drawings.

Although we've done this sort of modification work over the years, most still don't want to pay the price which is typically more than the nominal plans price if still much less than a custom design.
But luckily, most changes can be carried out by the builder himself, even by those with little or no experience, and often with little or no consultation between the builder and the designer. I'll explain which and how such changes can be made on your own, and which should not be attempted and why.

Most changes are simpler than you think
Some changes – while seemingly complex to the novice – are actually more cosmetic. When selecting a design, keep an open mind and develop some "vision" about boats. For example, you may be looking for an open cockpit design of a certain size or hull-type, but can't find a stock plan. In this case, expand your search to include cruisers in the size and hull-type you want. It may be feasible to simply omit the cabin and build the boat as an open cockpit (but do discuss it with the designer first).

Conversely, if you want to add a cabin to an open cockpit hull, you should probably consult the designer to