From: paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 04 Nov 2011 20:25:58 -0000
Subject: Re: Water storage on Johanna

Hello everyone.

Kevin,
Yes I kept the water storage more or less like it was in the photograph.
However I ended up using 6x 10L collapsible water containers like this

http://www.gooutdoors.co.uk/hi-gear-roll-up-camping-water-carrier-p108988

They were selling at =C2=A32 each when I got mine. I can just about squeeze them all in if I don't overfill them, and there's not a lot of empty space. The water bottles only amounted to 32L total, which is obviously 30Kgs less ballast. I would really need to make up the deficit with more lead, as it is, she's well under ballasted with 120Kgs of lead onboard.
Practically - it's a bit of a hassle having to fill the bags and I never use that water whilst sailing as I still carry a few 2 L bottles as they are more practical and easy to get to. If I wanted a large supply of potable water, I'd use proper collapsible tanks which are plumbed in for filling and emptying. I am toying with perhaps making the tanks as designed but making them free flooding. I just need a reliable method of emptying/filling together with reliable inspection covers. At the moment I'm not ready to cut any holes in the bottom of the boat! Maybe if someone comes up with a good method, I'd perhaps consider giving it a go. I believe Alistair gave up on the water tanks for a season and added extra lead, but subsequently returned to the water ballast to reduce the towing weight (which is my reason for using water too).

In your stretched design I expect you'll need even more ballast. I'm not sure if you intend to keep the boat afloat but that would have a big influence on what you do with the ballast tanks.

I don't believe there is much lost in the structural integrity of not having the tops of the tanks bonded in. as you'll have realised, everything about the boat is pretty  well over-engineered in comparison to most production boats. The only thing that concerns me slightly is the robustness of the rudder pivot on the stock, but I've never heard of anyone losing a rudder yet! I'm really still very much trying to built up my confidence in the boat. She is quite different to what I'm used to sailing. When the wind picks up I also worry about whether I put enough glue in the  chine joints, did I scarf the side panels correctly, did I make the mast walls too thin........ :-)

Pete