From: "La" <laciudad2004@yahoo.com.ar>
Date: Wed, 04 Jan 2012 21:50:21 -0000
Subject: Then came the big day. THE "Cachivache" known the sea.

On Monday, January 2 taking advantage of the holiday we decided it was time for the ship knew the sea. 
Already proven their qualities navigation in the waters of Rio Chubut, this town called salt, and we did pray too. 
From early preparations began with Alice, the Admiral and the Chief Officer and Juliana camerawoman. 
Gasoline and oil for outboard, refrigerator with cold cuts, soft drinks and other food edible and drinkable. We review and ropes and moorings arranchamos, radio, GPS and everything else on board were going to need. 

The day was a clear sky, wind NNE about 15 knots and a temperature at 11 hours at 20 =B0 C. cast off and headed for the mouth of the river, 12 miles later. 
Taking advantage of the current and the river in downpipe let it go in a fleet that lasted for about two hours. Hard to describe in words of peace and tranquility transmitting the sound of water to be cut by the bow and only the song of a bird broke that magical moment. 
As we sailed towards progress is slower and no longer with the help of the paddle we stay the course, the tide began to rise, it was time to start the outboard. 
The auxiliary engine, a 3.3 Hp Evinrude, starts at the first attempt, and his rhythmic purring slowly approaching our destination was. 

We sailed a few knots anticipating any eventuality with the many sandbanks with these waters, and without warning struck a blow us off guard. The ship will stop for a moment, back, and looking towards the tip of the stick we see with horror that a cable had broken VHF antenna. 
Nobody saw it, was half hidden by the branches of trees in a corner. Without hesitation we aim at the coast and down the stick. Actually this move would correspond been done before sailing and we knew we would go under a bridge and two bridges very low. The baton was made to put a price. 

With the stick lashed on the cabin we sail to our destination, little by little water color was changing its usual brown to green, indicating that we were approaching the sea. Taste test was just to confirm what our eyes saw. 
In preparing the cabin flagship good mates, Juliana never tired of taking pictures, the miles are adding up and we were still closer to our destination. At one point the engine had enough, when reviewing, I had no more fuel. I call attention, is an outboard very low consumption. Funds, the charge was simple maneuver, big surprise to see how the mix was lost in the water. 
By removing the lid we discovered the cause of the problem, a hose split between the fuel shutoff valve and filter. Had been placed a few days before new clips, but like any inanimate object, hoses also have their perversity. 
Not solve the problem took more than five minutes, good fishing knife and two seals left us in running order again. 

Gradually we came to the Elsa, Rawson classic place where the few neighbors who practice water sports commonly used. A couple of boats, a rubber boat and a jet were made do with risky maneuvers trying to show their skills but indicating a total lack of knowledge about the rules of navigation. At high speed we exceeded forming large waves that were tossing the junk and fearfully crossed over the bow. We decided to moor off the coast and have lunch waiting for these flutes of holiday is reassured. 

They had spent about four hours since we set sail and starvation was rampant among the crew, nothing a good pair of sandwiches did not fix. 
After lunch we got back on track, it was time to move the rudder to the flag-ship, without hesitation I grab the rod tightly and his face was showing happiness in the moment with little experience can take the boat fishing with confidence. 
We set the highest, the green call attention quickly, and arrived at the port, where the activity was feverish, just entering the boats unloading hundreds of boxes of prawns and saluted the "Cachi" in its wake. Proud and haughty with slight nods answered the sympathies of the fishermen. 
As we approach the beaches in the area of &amp;#8203;&amp;#8203;the scene was repeated cliffs, some obviously knew us and listen to be called on several occasions. The distance did not allow us to identify them and was very focused against the strong current stripping the place to find the binoculars. 
Slowly we were sticking around to find a place to tie up, we had to help with the outboard, the downpipe was strong. 
Since we had identified Prefecture good with a fishing place. 

Unfortunately Rawson port infrastructure is not prepared to receive small boats, and we had to, in principle, bind to the coast and down to the crew in a stinky mud that sank to the knees. 
Completed this maneuver the boat to take his tie and realized that despite the mud that was the smarter option, because to reach the pier had to climb a rusty pipe dangerously that structure. 
Land and all tap timely remove of the mud that looked into the hands and legs, while waiting the arrival of a friend who would bring us back to the city. 
They were more than seven hours of sailing, we returned tired but very happy with the boat built with hard work and deprivation. 
Now if the "Cachivache" is a reality. 

Note: On-line translator