From: Jeffrey Michals-Brown <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 22 Jan 2012 15:46:29 -0500 (EST)
Subject: Re: Reefing Drum drawing 9

I'm not building, so take with salt, but--
I'm guessing the copper pipe imbedded in boom is for wear and tear and to distribute load.  For load distribution I should think you'd want something much stiffer than copper, which deforms easily.



From: Jack Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sun, Jan 22, 2012 2:53 pm
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Reefing Drum drawing 9


 A little help please. I suck at boatbuilding. I half suck at woodworking, and double suck at all the rest that goes into building a boat. Oh and I quadruple suck at anything involving metal.

Here is what I think. Please tell me if I'm anywhere near the track, much less on-track:

A 1/2" hard copper water pipe is stuck into the tack end of the boom, and will be the receiver for a 12mm brass rod.

Q1) What type of adhesive holds the copper water pipe into the boom? Or should it not be glued at all?

Epoxy, you can add silica to make it more of a "glue" different silica with different holding properties are avail

I plan on ordering a 464 naval brass rod from Duckworks http://www.duckworksbbs.com/materials/navbrass/rod/index.htm.

Q2) I don't know what 464 naval brass is, but I'm assuming this rod can be machined with a Dremel tool?

careful of naval brass, can be Very hard to machine, but then again, will not wear easy, but remember what tools you have at your disposal, sil. bronze is probably a better choice, easy to work and very strong, I think that's what matt had called for in the plans

Q3) The end of the brass rod that sticks into the copper pipe will need a 5mm groove, 5mm from the end of the rod which will receive a stop screw? This groove can be cut with a Dremel tool?

yes, i used a hand held 4" grinder, it's not that critical, just holds the boom from sliding off, naval brass may not be easy to work with a Dremel

Q4) The end of the brass rod that is bolted to a 1/4" standard brass pipe will need to be split in half? The rod can be split in half with a Dremel tool or a hacksaw?

there are ways of doing this without having to split the rod, I think in the files or photo section there is a set up I made, crude-looking but with a bit of work it works great, boat's name is JillBaby

Q5) The split ends of the brass rod are then bent into a V-shape, and a 1/4" hole is drilled into them to receive a 1/4" bolt. A high speed drill bit will be able to do this? Again, I haven't worked with this brass before.

with that modification above, this is not needed

Q6) Before all the above happens, the brass rod must be bent. The best time to bend it is before it is cut to size? Should I take it to a muffler shop for the bending? Or should I use a long steel pipe as cheater bar? Would a conduit bender work?

with a long enough lever, you could move the earth. ;) I don't know how the brass will bend, but the sil bronze rod went easy enough, I would bend first then cut to size

Q7) How on earth is the thimble (Thank God Duckworks sells those too; otherwise I would have been shopping at sewing store; not kidding.) seized to the swivel rod (Oh "swivel rod," that's what this thing-a-ma-bob is called.)? Or maybe even better, How on earth would I attach the Racelite #201 block to the swivel rod?

think what you are talking about is again part of that mod I did to that set up

Q8) The tack strop spacer pipe made of 1/4" brass schedule .40 (standard) pipe will be easier or harder to work with than the brass swivel rod discussed above?

the pipe was very easy compared to the rod
hopefully this helps, working from memory

Jack