From: paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com
Date: Wed, 25 Jan 2012 19:12:19 -0000
Subject: Re: Reefing Drum drawing 9
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com


Q1) What type of adhesive holds the copper water pipe into the boom?  Or should it not be glued at all?

I epoxied mine in. I first sealed the inner end (with epoxy) so that the inside of the tube did not get contaminated during the glue up.


I plan on ordering a 464 naval brass rod from Duckworks http://www.duckworksbbs.com/materials/navbrass/rod/index.htm.

Q2) I don't know what 464 naval brass is, but I'm assuming this rod can be machined with a Dremel tool?

No idea on the naval brass. I used phosphor bronze as per the plans.

Q3) The end of the brass rod that sticks into the copper pipe, will need a 5mm groove, 5mm from the end of the rod; which will receive a stop screw?  This groove can be cut with a Dremel tool?

I cut a groove in mine but have never got round to fitting a stop screw. I think it's more or less redundant. I can't see how the boom and the strop could ever part company.


Q4) The end of the brass rod that is bolted to a 1/4" standard brass pipe will need to be split in half?  The rod can be split in half with a Dremel tool or a hacksaw?

I used a hacksaw. It was tough stuff!


Q5) The split ends of the brass rod are then bent into a V-shape, and a 1/4" hole is drilled into them to receive a 1/4" bolt.  A high-speed drill bit will be able to do this?  Again, I haven't worked with this brass before.

Easily drilled.


Q6) Before all the above happens, the brass rod must be bent.  The best time to bend it is before it is cut to size?  Should I take it to a muffler shop for the bending?  Or should I use a long steel pipe as a cheater bar?  Would a conduit bender work?

I bent mine by drilling a hole in an old tree stump in the garden and using a piece of steel conduit. I also heated it with a blow lamp as it work hardens.


Q7) How on earth is the thimble (Thank God Duckworks sells those too; otherwise, I would have been shopping at a sewing store; not kidding.) seized to the swivel rod (Oh "swivel rod", that's what this thing-a-ma-bob is called.)?  Or maybe even better, How on earth would I attach the Racelite #201 block to the swivel rod?

I screwed a fairlead on mine by drilling 2x 3mm holes.


http://paradoxbuild.webs.com/PICT0130.JPG


Q8) The tack strop spacer pipe made of 1/4" brass schedule .40 (standard) pipe will be easier or harder to work with than the brass swivel rod discussed above?

I didn't have any of that so used standard copper water pipe. I modified the swivel end by using standard plumbing fittings as it would not be strong enough as shown on the plans. I've found my design works very well.

See 
http://paradoxbuild-johanna.blogspot.com/2010/07/no-update-does-not-mean-no-progress.html

scroll down for details..
HTH
Pete