From: "okiebobby@ymail.com" <okiebobby@ymail.com>
Date: Sat, 28 Jan 2012 08:34:29 -0000
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Bending swivel rod

As mentioned in the lead post, I don't know much about metal.  Fortunately my first experience went surprising well.

I had the afternoon off, and decided to take the brass rod to a local muffler shop appropriately titled "Benders", since I questioned my abilities.  A nice gentleman at Benders informed me the rod was too narrow for their equipment, and referred me to a local metals supplier, a local machine shop, and a not so locate tool manufacturer.

First stop was the local metals supplier "Metal Supermarkets", since I was curious about what else they might carry (e.g. brass/bronze pipe, lead pigs).  They did not have any bending equipment, but were helpful, and discussed my back-up plan of doing the job myself, and what they kept in stock.  Yes they kept brass rod stocked, similar to the naval brass rod I was holding. Unfortunately no lead pigs.  Then they referred me to a shop around the corner that may have the right bending equipment.

At that shop, Brian the shop supervisor, informed me that he did not have the right equipment, but he was extremely helpful in manually bending the rod ever so slightly across his knee, which seemed to clear a lot of my misperceptions.  Then he proceeded to look at drawing 9.  We discussed the jig, until he mentioned welding, at which time I blanked-out.

I went back to Metal Supermarkets.  Purchased a 6' steel cheater bar, and a scrap piece of 1.5" round (to guide the bend).

On my way back home I chickened out again, and called the machine shop referred to me by Benders.  The machine shop did not have the equipment, and referred me to a retired machinist.  He was willing, but not very available.  He referred me to his neighbor, who did not answer my call.

By then I was home again, with everything a 'man' needs to do a job, and running out of excusses not to do it myself.  So I made an incredibly simple jig which I did not expect to hold up, but it did.  The hole bend took just a few minutes, including the jig (since it was just some wood clamps [see 'okiebobby' photos]).

The most difficult part was trying to keep my 5 year old daughter and her friend far enough away, incase the jig broke and went flying; while responding to her friends questions:  What was I doing?  Why was I doing that?  How long have I been building a boat?  Why is it taking me so long?  When will I be done?

All in all it was a great day, and was followed up with my first experience purchasing copper pipe, which was inexpensive and easy.  Pipe cutters are so cool.  The pieces fit perfectly.  Matt Layden is a genius

I expect to have more questions regarding the copper pipe, as well as the brass/bronze pipe.  I'll put those in a different post, since this narative was so lengthy.

Respectfully,
Bobby