From: Rodney Cannon <rdnycannon@yahoo.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 07:56:13 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: Fafnir or Paradox

I agree, also at first the Paradox seems a little intimidating to build but after you get started it all gets much easier. I almost finished my first build while in California but had to abandon it for a life changing move to New Orleans, La. I am beginning again to build and have found the process much easier the second time. Duh! LOL   I had considered building Fafnir this time but changed my mind for the reasons Alastair mentions. I think the Paradox still suits my needs due to the shallow draft and the conditions under which I will be sailing.

Which ever design you choose I think you will be happy as they both seem like great boats,

Rod Cannon

From: "openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2012 03:26:00 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Fafnir or Paradox

On 25 Feb 2012 at 1:03, Rod wrote:

Hi, I am wanting to build another small sail boat capable of coastal
short trips. Have just finished my first boat, a Bolger Micro, but
want something a bit more solid and with less cockpit and more cabin.
Must be self righting, etc, etc. I am ready to begin a Welsford Fafnir
but just wondering how a paradox would compare. I love the fafnir but
a little concerned that the weight/sail ratio would make it very very
slow.

I suppose it depends on what your coastline is like. I use my Paradox 
for coastal cruising on the south coast of England and Fafnir just 
wouldn't do the job here. The 2ft 7in draft is just too great. It 
would have trouble getting over the bar into some of the smaller 
rivers, and getting ashore would be a pain. Does it dry out upright? 
Often, with the Paradox, I can run the bow ashore and step off dry 
shod.

Could be a challenge to get on and off the trailer too.

Nice boat if you want to stay at sea, though.

-- 
Hoping for calm nights

Alastair Law, 
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>