From: "Geoff" <geoffdavis67@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 10 Jul 2012 12:34:01 -0000
Subject: Re: winter heater

Jim,

I haven't been on the newsgroup much lately and only just noticed this. Wow. I'm really impressed. That's inspiring. Now I'm all 'fired up' to try making some kind of mini stove. Does it require much fuel? How do you manage to ignite such a mini fire? Where do you get your charcoal from? And... sorry for all the questions... just one more... how did you arrive at such a brilliant idea to build this tiny stove?

Cheers,
Geoff (Small Fry, Fremantle).

From: "flexwing462" <flexwing462@...>
Date: Unknown
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: winter heater

Just put up some more photos. This time of my little charcoal heater glowing in the corner of the cabin. It's made from a piece of 2 inch diameter copper pipe for the main body , copper sheet ends, half inch copper pipe to make the feet and a length of 1 inch metal flexible motor exhaust tubing for the flue.
 
I stand it in an ex Army mess tin to keep any dust or escaping charcoal under control and that's stood on a bit of scrap plywood and with a silicone baking sheet under that to protect top the of the water tanks from excessive heat.
 
It's only the size of a small beer can, so easy to stow under the floor when not in use. The little 'stoking' doors are just the right size for adding more fuel with a teaspoon and are closed off with adjustable sliders to control the air draft.
 
I've found that it's a bit too small to give off a huge amount of heat, but does raise the temperature in the cabin a good few degrees if you keep the sliding hatch closed and the front vent blocked off as shown.
 
Before someone warns me of the danger from Carbon monoxide gas, the rear vent is fully open and the air draught through the flue is enough to suck combustion gasses up and away from the cabin.
I've spent quite a few hours in the cabin with it burning and I'm not quite dead yet...
 
Merry Christmas
 
Jim