From: "rags8mygoat" <raghauler@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 03 Sep 2012 19:45:09 -0000
Subject: Re: Has anyone built a 16.5' Paradox?

Matt,

There have been several builds that vary from the Paradox plan; in size, build schedule, fastening technique, framing particulars, materials, etc. Refer to the files and photo sections and individual write-ups, as well as the history of posts (that will keep you busy reading for a while!). My own build (still in planning stages, unfortunately) will be a fairly strict adherence to design particulars, but with a 10% size increase. I love the original boat, but in my mock-ups I found the space a bit too constricting for my frame (6'4", 245lb). I was still willing to build to design, with some insight from Alister Law and others regarding minor changes to accommodate my height. The final blow was struck against that idea when I realized that my cased guitar would not fit in the forward "stateroom"!
This is no small decision to make. As others will attest, the Paradox as designed is incredibly efficient in the use of 4x8 sheet goods (assuming you or I could remain faithful to the "measure twice, cut once" regimen); even at just a 10% increase the number of sheets goes up significantly (take a good close look at the suggested panel layouts on sheet #6 for confirmation). A helpful "nudge" in my opting larger was stumbling across the availability of 5x10 marine plywood; pricey, but available. The larger amounts of glass cloth and epoxy also notches the cost upward. Of course, you will have reviewed the increase in displacement, in my case, to 1877 lbs., the larger amounts of water and lead as a portion of that displacement, the calculations for mast, boom and yard stiffness, sail dimensions, stowed sail spool size, windage increase, etc. Oh, then there are the considerations of the greater mass, area and volume that you will be occupying, machining, rolling over, bending, fastening, covering, sanding... I've more or less resigned myself to the fact that my build will be significantly more expensive than a strict adherence to design, a fact I'm able to rationalize away by factoring in the likely amount of time it will take me to complete it! Unfortunately for me, I've been enraptured by the design for far too many years, Almost dismissed it until reading the very document by Glen Maxwell that you cite, have found few other designs that even come close to satisfying my perceived needs as this, and have blown my mouth off far too often and pushed the tolerance of friends and family to the limits, expounding about "the boat I'm going to build". Now, it HAS to happen!
Well, that's a lot of blather, but I hope it gives you food for thought.

Regards,
Kevin