From: "rags8mygoat" <raghauler@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 20 Nov 2012 08:23:18 -0000
Subject: Re: Sharpie for sale... saltwater vs. fresh water

I am fascinated by the link that Mr.Orlov provides for the description of Hogfish, a boat built much like a paradox, specifically for a statement made within the description:

 "It can be treated as a fiberglass hull for most purposes, except that it probably would not like fresh water: it is built with marine plywood that is formulated for salty ocean water, and an extended period spent in fresh water would eventually cause the plywood core to swell and delaminate." 

This statement was made within the description of the layup of the hull, which, like the Paradox, consists of a plywood core, glassed over on the exterior and epoxy coated (I think) on the interior. I am fascinated, because this is the first I have seen mention of a "specially formulated" plywood, or the idea of water penetration differing between salt and fresh water to the extent of being of concern for an epoxied,(and,I assume)undamaged monoque structure.  There was also an associated discussion of the use of salt to stop rot that will occur in water-penetrated wood. I am familiar with "dry rot", osmotic blistering and water penetration to the point of "oil-canning" in cored FRP hulls, but I had thought that this problem was associated with damage to the hull or the quality of fiberglass resins and/or layup, and that epoxy barrier coats (after core drying or replacement, if applicable) were considered an adequate, long-term solution. Perhaps I am wrong in associating epoxy primary construction with epoxy barrier coats?  Are there significant material differences?

As a commenter stated in the associated discussion of Hogfish, I think I will contact epoxy manufacturers as well, but I would love to see comment and conjecture from this group regarding these issues as they would apply to a Paradox constructed for use in both fresh and salt water venues.