From: "Paul V." <admin@cruisenews.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Building a Paradox (motorsailer?)
Date: Thu, 03 Oct 2002 02:51:22 -0000

A boat is far more than the sum of its parts. When you start changing parts of a boat design, you affect the total system.

One of the attractive points about Paradox is that is was developed over years by someone who worked out the bugs and came up with his version of the perfect mini-cruising sailboat. The design is very refined and as a builder, all you have to do is follow the plans and you will end up with a boat that does what it should.

Paradox is unique in that it has bilge keels and an enclosed cabin in a small boat, and for that matter there are just not that many sharpie cruiser designs out there. So anyone who wants a small sharpie cruiser starts with Paradox and just wants to change it a little. I think there is a general misunderstanding that you can make changes to a boat design as you like. The reality is that you have to balance a number of considerations and strike an adequate compromise on a boat design.

I think the pram hood is a good idea. Adding three feet to the boat or changing the rig might be a good idea but it would have to be part of a complete design, a new design based on Paradox, but totally thought out on its own.

I am planning to make some changes that are not that big but even then I hesitate on whether to deviate from the plans. For example, I want a hinged hatch instead of a sliding hatch, and I will probably remove the water tank and add lead ballast instead of water. To me those are radical changes, which have to be justified.

My reasons are that I will use the boat in cold climates, and want a watertight hatch that I can dog down, and I am afraid of water tanks in the hull during freeze/thaw cycles. I also prefer bottled water to tank water. Other changes I might make to Paradox would be additional insulation and attention to details on bug protection.

This is my goal, to build a boat for a short trip up to this location:
http://www.mandow.ca/

Most people use freighter canoes with big outboards. Apparently one important strategy in bad weather is to haul the boat up on shore, where ever you may be, and wait out the weather. Perfect for a Paradox.

I tried designing my own boat, and still think about it, but I know that I would have to build at least three boats to work out all the bugs, and I don't have the time for that.

I think that the best reply to your changes is that you need to completely redesign the boat for the major changes you are proposing.