From: Mark Hamilton <mghamilton@pacbell.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 2 Jan 2013 21:19:34 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: How to Price a paradox

Yes George - I was the guy who bought Zoe, the higher priced boat. It had a builder of stature, and long history, and was completely outfitted (including stereo), vetted and ready to sail. But when I had it shipped to me after purchase, the shipper had his trailer catch fire and my boat was ash. Worse yet, the shipper advertised he carried full insurance, but turned out he did not.

So as much as I want a Paradox, I don't have the heart to pay for another high priced one. But you are right, it depends on lots of factors. 

Sigh...maybe I should suck it up and try one more time?

From: George Van Sickle <gvansickle@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Wednesday, January 2, 2013 1:32 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: How to Price a paradox

Yes, ultimately the price could be at the margin of what someone is willing to pay for the boat. Like lots of other illiquid, depreciating assets (unique or not many sales data points) there are some more specific metrics that buyers and sellers of a used Paradox could consider in the pricing equation.

Comparables: there have been some recent sales of used Paradox boats, in the 2-3K range, as best I can tell from casual observation of internet postings. There was a sale or two a few years ago at a significantly higher price point if my memory serves. Your boat is new so it should fetch a premium over those comparable sales. Quality of build and current condition would be an adjustment factor as well as any included equipment (trailer, etc.) Used boats have generally had some of the value “used up” and so go for depreciated prices. 

Replacement cost: What is the cost of materials, not just your cost but the current cost to buy the materials to build the boat. I built a 15’ Enigma a few years ago and I have 3-4K in the boat just in materials. Your Paradox has more material in it so I bet your materials costs are higher. Theoretically, your material costs should be a floor for pricing. Then there is your time and energy which in theory could easily double the cost. In a hired build, the labor is usually more than the materials but would usually be at least 50%.

Supply/Demand considerations: If there is a lot of demand relative to supply for the boat, then you can price it higher. Seems like there are quite a few people who are interested in the unique Paradox design. But not so many have the time, skills or inclination to go through a build and a professional build is pricey. 

Not sure if all this helps much but it seems to me that 3K is not even or just barely materials cost for the boat. Then there is the trailer. Seems like to me you could price the boat much higher.