From: Jeffrey Michals-Brown <JMichalsbr@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 1 Feb 2013 21:00:19 -0500 (EST)
Subject: Re: Grettings! New Paradox inductee here... Need help with Yuloh specs

Sean, 

Congratulations to you and Lezlie both!  I have watched the build--is very professional.  Did you say you're contemplating a name change?  A shame.  A tiny box bigger on the inside than the outside, can take you anywhere is time and space?  A perfect name!  (And I'm not even a Dr. Who fan--I just know a few.)


From: nebwest2 <nebwest2@aol.com>
To: paradoxbuilders <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, Feb 1, 2013 12:45 pm
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Grettings!  New Paradox inductee here... Need help with Yuloh specs


My name is Sean Mulligan. For most of my life I have played in the pocket cruiser world which culminated in me founding the Havasu Pocket Cruisers Convention ( www.sailhavasu.com).  I have always been intrigued by micro cruisers, the texas 200, watertribe events, etc.  I have lurked on the micro-cruiser websites for years, drooling because I just did not have the time to build one of my own. 

Well, when I saw Lezlie's "Tardis" go up for sale I got a hold of her immediately and long story short....I am now the owner of a beautifully constructed 95% complete Paradox.  :-)  

The boat is not even here in Havasu yet, as I have it stored at my buddy John Ownes of J.O. Woodowrks in Texas...but it should arrive here in AZ soon. 

One thing I need to do is to construct the Yuloh.  I was hoping that there was info in the plans or build manual...but John has preused them for me and says "no".  Can anyone help out with something with specific instructions/dimensions for building a Yuloh for the Paradox? Or please point me in the right direction??

Thanks. I look forward to really getting to know the group over the coming months/years.  "Tardis" will probably undergo a name change...but Lezlies legacy will go forward in the Paradox world. I am thrilled to be in the position to take custody of her Paradox and make her my own. 

Sean Mulligan
sailhavasu@aol.com