From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 07 Feb 2013 14:41:15 -0000
Subject: Re: Grettings! New Paradox inductee here... Need help with Yuloh specs

Yes, I've been experimenting with changing the curve in my Enigma yuloh in an effort to discover the ideal amount of curve necessary to provide the best propulsion while at the same time reducing the amount of wrist input necessary to properly feather the blade. The reason I began this investigation was because my right wrist started hurting after I sculled Enigma close to 7 straight hours during the last NC Challenge I entered. Afterwards, I figured that if I increased the curve of the oar there would be less wrist motion necessary to orientate the oar properly. Therefore, I made a yuloh that had plenty of curve like the one found on Little Cruiser. However, what I discovered was that the new oar self-feathered better, but it seemed to produce less power than the original. I think this may have to do with the fact that there was more drag at the end of the stroke when the oar was orientated vertically in the water. Therefore, I started construction on another yuloh that had about half the amount of curve as my first one, but unfortunately I haven't gotten around to finishing it yet. I suspect it will be better than the initial one I made, but I'm beginning to believe that Matt already figured out the optimal amount curve for that oar to propel Enigma at maximum speed. From talking to Sven Yrvind on the subject, I've learned that a straighter oar may be better overall because it can provide a wider range of control which is especially useful for sculling backwards. He also suggested that I add a handle at the end of the oar like he has done to make managing the oar less fatiguing. Nonetheless, I haven't quite given up on my idea, and I'm hoping that when I carve out my latest oar, I'll reveal a compromise that meets my goal of producing a yuloh that gives me good power with minimal wrist motion.  

James Hall wrote:

Has anyone experimented by increasing the amount of bend in the yuloh shaft?

Best

Jim


------------------------------------