From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
Date: Fri, 08 Feb 2013 15:44:15 -0000
Subject: Re: Grettings! New Paradox inductee here... Need help with Yuloh specs
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

Jim, 

I'm in the same boat as you so to speak. I'm hoping to do some sailing in the future and I have been working on various upgrades to the Enigma design.

Some of those changes included adding foam floatation, improving gear stowage and installing a bilge pump. Unlike the Paradox design, Enigma relies on sealed compartments in the bow and the stern to provide adequate floation should the boat become flooded. However, if the bow is holed or if one of those 5 gallon bucket hatches is lost, then the boat could be unrecoverable in a capsize or even sink. I remember when we initially took delivery of Enigma one of the first things Matt told me was to never sail the boat without the hatches in place. I also recall seeing the bow and the stern compartments chock full of Arizona tea jugs. I guess Matt and his wife love their ice tea because there were a lot of plastic jugs in there. Of course later I took these out to make room for  gear, but it made me wonder what would happened if I lost the integretiy of those waterproof compartments. It also reminded me of the benefits of having built in foam floatation like you have aboard your Paradox. Therefore, I've added some foam under the deck for a little more piece of mind. 

Another thing I started working on was how to secure various pieces of heavy equipment like my tool box and anchor. Should my boat get knocked down or rolled over, I didn't want all that weighty stuff holding the boat upside down or trying to bash a hole in the thin skinned hull. Again, it made me think of Paradox with its many safe compartments under the floorboards and its incredibly sturdy construction. In the end, I did the best I could and attached my gear with tie downs to eyelets and blocks.

Lastly, I was concerned about removing water efficiently out of the craft if it got capsized and flooded. Though it's true that very little seawater should enter our micro-cruiserss while the hatch is closed, there is always the possibility of a knock down while you've got your head popping out the top. Therefore, this past Fall I filled Enigma up with around 20 gallons of water to see how hard it would be to remove it just on dry land. I first tried using a small bucket which I carry along with me anyways, but it soon became apparent that it wasn't that fast and it got old having to scoop up water and then lift it over the coaming. I also remembered the story Matt told me of him bailing out vital gear with a bucket after his capsize in the Gulf Stream at night in Swamp Thing. So at that point I pretty much ruled out using a bucket as my primary means of water removal. 

Next, I pulled out a manual bilge pump I often carry in my kayak. It is a pump that many people are familiar with and it looks like a pvc pipe with a plunger in it. It didn't take me long to find out that this pump was a lot quicker and more efficient then a bucket. However, I also noticed that it was best employed while standing up since it is long and it is opeated with an upward and downward stroke. Unfortunately, standing up in a flooded and unstable vessel doesn't sound like the best thing to do if you don't want to get capsized again in the same rough conditions that knocked you over in the first place. Therefore, I went ahead and tried one more pump. 

This time after refilling the boat with water, I pulled out a Whale Urchin bilge pump that I had been saving for Swamp Thing. I first had to screw it down temporarily to a wood board so I could place it under my knee, and then I started pumping away. To my amazingement, I was able to clear the boat in only a few minutes while still crouching low in the boat. Obviously this was the way to go. I then attached it securely to the rear bulkhead, where it could be reached while seated at the stern or amidship.  

So in the end what does this all have to do with Paradox and this forum? Well the whole process of improving my Enigma reminded me of how great the older Paradox design is in regards to stowage and safety. Moreover, it also made me realize that no matter how good a design is to begin with, there is always a little something you can do to make it even better.