From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2013 17:56:33 +0000 (GMT)
Subject: Re: was about the yuloh - now buoyancy

Hello Dave

Snap - as they say here. 
My Paradox came without foam floatation as Bill decided not to fit any while building. 
I can appreciate why, as it would take up a lot of valuable storage/living space, if there were to be a useful amount.

I have collected lots of empty plastic screw-top bottles of the kind that you buy mineral water and Coca Cola in and stowed them where I can in an attempt to provide some emergency buoyancy. In particular the most forward compartment is stuffed full of them, as that space is less useful for storage of gear - being awkward to get to for an oldie like me. 
So I'm sure that the bow, at least, would float if the worst happened. 

The stern end is more problematic, as I'm reluctant to sacrifice good storage space there. I have some hollow plastic fenders stored there, a two gallon water can- which is often only part full, my home made portable toilet - which would float and lots of plastic containers with snap-on lids for dry food storage.
So there is some emergency buoyancy there - but it's variable because it's value depends on how much food I've eaten and water I've drunk...:-)

I'm always adding stuff to the boat's inventory, because I'm sure it will come in useful one day, but not very good at taking stuff out, so the boat is getting heavier. The biggies under the cabin sole include a 15 kg take-apart storm anchor and 15 metres of galvanised chain for it, tools and spare parts and more assorted ironmongery than you could imagine. There is a Honda outboard and a big battery fitted too.

So it would be an interesting exercise to try and calculate or guess how much emergency buoyancy would be appropriate insurance for if the boat was holed in a collision. You'd need the flooded boat to float pretty high up , so the tiller slot was well above the waves if there was to be any chance of bailing her out.

Like you, I'm sure it would be awkward to bail out with a bucket through the hatch so I too have fitted a manual bilge pump under the cabin sole.

I wish I could train myself to stop adding more  stuff....

Best

Jim


--- On Fri, 8/2/13, boldav38 <mbolduc@triad.rr.com> wrote:

From: boldav38 <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Grettings!  New Paradox inductee here... Need help with Yuloh specs
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Friday, 8 February, 2013, 15:44


Jim I'm in the same boat as you so to
speak. I'm hoping to do some sailing in the future and I
have been working on various upgrades to the Enigma design.
Some of those changes included adding foam floatation,
improving gear stowage and installing a bilge pump. Unlike
the Paradox design, Enigma relies on sealed compartments in
the bow and the stern to provide adequate floation should
the boat become flooded. However, if the bow is holed or if
one of those 5 gallon bucket hatches is lost, then the boat
could be unrecoverable in a capsize or even sink. I remember
when we initially took delivery of Enigma one of the first
things Matt told me was to never sail the boat without the
hatches in place. I also recall seeing the bow and the stern
compartments chock full of Arizona tea jugs. I guess Matt
and his wife love their ice tea because there were a lot of
plastic jugs in there. Of course later I took these out to
make room for gear, but it made me wonder what would
happened if I lost the integretiy of those waterproof
compartments. It also reminded me of the benefits of having
built in foam floatation like you have aboard your Paradox.
Therefore, I've added some foam under the deck for a little
more piece of mind. 

Another thing I started working on was how to secure various
pieces of heavy equipment like my tool box and anchor.
Should my boat get knocked down or rolled over, I didn't
want all that weighty stuff holding the boat upside down or
trying to bash a hole in the thin skinned hull. Again, it
made me think of Paradox with its many safe compartments
under the floorboards and its incredibly sturdy
construction. In the end, I did the best I could and
attached my gear with tie downs to eyelets and blocks.

Lastly, I was concerned about removing water efficiently out
of the craft if it got capsized and flooded. Though it's
true that very little seawater should enter our
micro-cruiserss while the hatch is closed, there is always
the possibility of a knock down while you've got your head
popping out the top. Therefore, this past Fall I filled
Enigma up with around 20 gallons of water to see how hard it
would be to remove it just on dry land. I first tried using
a small bucket which I carry along with me anyways, but it
soon became apparent that it wasn't that fast and it got old
having to scoop up water and then lift it over the coaming.
I also remembered the story Matt told me of him bailing out
vital gear with a bucket after his capsize in the Gulf
Stream at night in Swamp Thing. So at that point I pretty
much ruled out using a bucket as my primary means of water
removal. 

Next, I pulled out a manual bilge pump I often carry in my
kayak. It is a pump that many people are familiar with and
it looks like a pvc pipe with a plunger in it. It didn't
take me long to find out that this pump was a lot quicker
and more efficient then a bucket. However, I also noticed
that it was best employed while standing up since it is long
and it is opeated with an upward and downward stroke.
Unfortunately, standing up in a flooded and unstable vessel
doesn't sound like the best thing to do if you don't want to
get capsized again in the same rough conditions that knocked
you over in the first place. Therefore, I went ahead and
tried one more pump. 

This time after refilling the boat with water, I pulled out
a Whale Urchin bilge pump that I had been saving for Swamp
Thing. I first had to screw it down temporarily to a wood
board so I could place it under my knee, and then I started
pumping away. To my amazingement, I was able to clear the
boat in only a few minutes while still crouching low in the
boat. Obviously this was the way to go. I then attached it
securely to the rear bulkhead, where it could be reached
while seated at the stern or amidship.=A0 

So in the end what does this all have to do with Paradox and
this forum? Well the whole process of improving my Enigma
reminded me of how great the older Paradox design is in
regards to stowage and safety. Moreover, it also made me
realize that no matter how good a design is to begin with,
there is always a little something you can do to make it
even better. 


------------------------------------

Yahoo! Groups Links

=A0 =A0 paradoxbuilders-fullfeatured@yahoogroups.com