From: Roberto Costa Sousa <tecelagem2@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2013 16:30:34 -0300
Subject: Re: Paradox Max

Because there are many good projects plates with 6 to 9mm, well tough.
And porqe myself sailboats built with sheets of 9mm and even 6mm with no
problem. I think a 9mm hull plating and also 9mm could very well be in
structural strength


From: Roselt <croeserpl@amnet.net.au>
Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2013 15:58:37 +1100
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox Max

Hi Gunther,
I would also like to see how it works. I have certainly considered the
bigger option. One idea I had was to keep the frames the same but just
stretch the sides longer. Either way I think that experimenting is what it
is all about. Matt Layden arrived at the Paradox design after quite a few
different boats. So why should someone not continue the journey.
Good luck
Roselt


From: batejarcat <bagwah@bell.net>
Date: Thu, 21 Mar 2013 17:54:12 -0400
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradox] Paradox Max

Hello
It is very difficult to decide something.
Surely an experienced boat builder of boats already built several years
sees such changes differently than I but if no one dares something there is
always the same boat and just empty rhetoric brings nobody's business. I
spent several months with the reading your postings, I thought it all out
well and long. As a normal paradox could be a little larger (should), I
would dare such a step. Only then I need help from the forum safe. New sail
plan, some dimensions (engine, Yoluh, mast) and certainly the one or the
other. I hope you will help me then if I have any questions, at the end I
have to always decide whether or how it is done (so no other the blame for
a mistake hits but only me) but I also need your ideas to help it then
later another. It's not like I want to build a 24ft boat I want more, only
20% and the blasphemous achieved even with this new Struck Tour without
bulkheads. We are talking about a few centimeters per room. My boat should
be able to carry more load (diving equipment, generator, tools, anything to
live on such a boat for some time can). I do not want a racing boat I will
not be there, just where I want to take there here today and there
tomorrow. That's why I'm so optimistic that this boat will float properly.
What makes me worry for the time being, only the weight of the boat on the
trailer because I do not know how many kilograms of the boat will have then.

Bye
Gunther