From: Roberto Costa Sousa <tecelagem2@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 21 Apr 2013 02:57:58 -0300
Subject: Re: Bigger Paradox

Looking at the website, you can see that he has a lot of experience in their adventures. However, I do not think right you think about it, others do not have too, or they may not know what they are talking about. Personally I have already dealt with boats for over 40 years and have built some, besides those who had sailed before and long. In these years, I have also seen that there is a tendency for people without any experience buying a project and wish to "modify" without the least knowledge, and it really is very common. On the other hand, it is not surprising that so experienced a man write on a forum asking if amateur gives to modify, and then you write these reviews actually inadequate about the opinion of some respondents intended to provide guidance. After all, who knows and who does not ask questions or answers.

From: Glen Maxwell <blueketch@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 20 Apr 2013 19:37:24 -0700
Subject: Re: Bigger Paradox

No Problem Chris,
    As someone who has actually built and sailed a paradox and know Matt
Layden personally I can assure you that you would have his blessing. He
once told me that Paradox was infinitely scale-able (the caveat is having
the knowledge to know how to address the myriad problems associated with an
increase in scale). As a former professional boat builder I understand how
to move bulkheads and where to add needed support in new areas and how to
calculate new sail area and how to adjust displacement in order to maintain
displacement ratios etc. I'm truly surprised at the number of people who
will weigh in with advise on a subject without doing any real research on
or really knowing what they are talking about. Be aware also of the
academics who possess knowledge with no practical experience. Theory is
fine until you get out there and find it doesn't apply to your situation.
Only through experience, which, judging by your website, you have in
spades, can you truly begain to understand what is important to your
situation and what is not. Good luck on your upcoming adventure, I for one
applaud you.
Glen

From: breier_c <long-expeditions@>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2013 16:38:19 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Bigger Paradox

Hi
no problem for me, it can be heavy, it can have more ballast and i wont chance the Sail, because will go slow, that's the main reason to get a Paradox !
I did my homework, I think about that project for over 3 Years now, and i Still think a Paradox is best for me and my way of travel!
I NEED the space, so it has to be bigger.
Constructive answers would be nice...
Search for another boat wont help me much!
Regards Chris

From: Roberto Costa Sousa <tecelagem2@>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2013 16:28:05 -0300
Subject: Re: Bigger Paradox

20% increase in mean increasing the total volume of a boat. This represents an important addition ballast, mast and sail area, only to get a little more space. Today there are plenty of good projects exactly suited to each use. It may be better to modify a project already calculated and well resolved.

From: Eliseu Passos <eliseupassos@>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2013 15:18:54 -0300
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Bigger Paradox

Hi Chris
I want to know this paradox with 20% increase after it's done.
Regards Eliseu

From: breier_c <breier_c@>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2013 11:18:46 -0000
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Bigger Paradox

Hi my name is Chris,

I am also from Germany. I will try to build a bigger (20%) Paradox in 2014.
I am on Expeditions for the last 25 years, so I know exactly what I need
and that would be a little bit bigger Paradox, because I want to spend 4-9
month at a time in the boat...
I think Matt said 20 % bigger would be fine with his design...
Am I wrong???

Regards from Germany Chris
www.long-expeditions.de