From: "" <openboat@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2013 15:30:20 +0100
Subject: Re: First cruise coming up

Hi everyone,

I'm excited. On May 3rd, I will be picking up ABIronsidesBB and going for a two-week live-aboard shake down cruise in South Puget Sound, starting from Olympia, Washington. I have read about half of the near 7000 messages on this forum and feel more and more fortunate (and somewhat shameful) at having obtained a Paradox without having been obliged to build it. (Thanks Steve!)

Don't worry, we won't hold a grudge.

My only prior sailing experience is two summers with a Siren 17 on the Saguenay fjord (with important tides) and a dozen day tours sailing with buddies in larger sloops. However, I am a professional outdoor guide (professor of outdoor adventure at the University of Quebec), so the camping aspects and orientation are second nature. I also did complete two sailing navigation courses with Canadian Power and Sails Squadrons here in Quebec, and my radio certification.

More sailing experience than I had when I launched Little Jim. My tactic was to point the boat where I wanted to go and pull on the string until we were moving. It has worked for me ever since.

I sure would appreciate any advice you guys might have to help a beginner prepare for his first trip. I wish to go yuloh only.

Good plan!

You should know that where I have sailed in the past there have been no other boats to deal with, so meeting tons of other boats concern me, even if I'm aware of the rules of the road.

In extremis head for the shallows. Few boats can sail in as little water as a Paradox. I sail in one of the world's busiest pleasure sailing areas, but there is still plenty of room between the boats. But don't assume that they know the rules.

My questions:

How can I get in trouble? Worst case scenarios?

Not easily unless you do something really stupid. The boat will look after you. Remember, the boat won't fall over.

Suggestions on how to anchor for sleeping?

I anchor from the cabin and transfer the pull to the bow once everything has settled down. For short stops, I just anchor from the stern.

Essential safety gear to carry, other than my SPOT and VHS radio? VHS channels to use in south Puget Sound?

Looks like you have it covered for safety gear (don't forget the coffee mug). Oh, and take a good cushion.

What to expect during my first moments aboard?

The boat is initially quite tender, but if ballasted correctly it won't fall over. Learn to relax or you will strain your grin muscles. Expect to meet lots of people wanting to know the history (I carry a little crib sheet to give to those who are really interested).

Good luck with the weather. We will expect a full report when you get back.

Hoping for calm nights,

Alastair Law,
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>