From: john dean <johndean61840@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 9 May 2013 16:09:44 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: Bugs

Hello Dave

I can't remember how bad the various bugs are. Since it should not be too hot you can make nets about a foot wider than the opening and sew some kind of light chain around the perimeter of the net too keep it in place.
If it rains a lot some kind of tarp that keeps most of the water out but lets some air in would be a joy.
Lights, I use home made Leds (try leading-led.com) I use their light strips for below deck. The strips are for 12v, I mount them on pieces of wooden yard sticks using 24 guage wire.
For anchor or nav lights I am using 12 inch long pieces of clear plastic tubing. For caps I use standard pvc ends. I grind out the ends for a tight fit on the tubing and then drill holes in the caps for the 24 guage wire. For the Leds I have been buying indavidual leds and resistors and soldering them in strings following Ohms law.
For anchors and chain I follow the bigger, heaver and longer rule. To avoid bugs I often anchor a long ways from shore.
I enjoy the internet so I pay for some sort of monthly service.
See you on the water, John

Original mail content:

--- On Mon, 5/6/13, Dave <daveskaife@yahoo.com> wrote:

From: Dave <daveskaife@yahoo.com>
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: First cruise coming up
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Monday, May 6, 2013, 11:48 PM

Everything in the south sound is scheduled according to tides. Plenty of delta and mudflat areas to explore, and you have the perfect boat for it. If you go north the Tacoma Narrows is the biggest challenge, time the tides right and shoot through, then try and make the turn north before the tide changes again, otherwise drop anchor and wait it out. After the Narrows everything else is pretty easy. 

If it were my trip I would stay south of the Narrows as its not that interesting a trip until you get all the up to the San Juan islands, and that's too far to go round trip in 2 weeks. 

Good luck