From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 31 May 2013 18:59:03 -0000
Subject: Re: more interesting question

Okay here is the link to my hull repair- http://www.microcruising.com/hullrepair.htm

I haven't experienced much slapping at anchor in LITTLE CRUISER unless the waves were pretty big. On the other hand, I have noticed on rare occasion that ENIGMA with her "v" bow has slapped here and there at anchor or while underway. However this is probably due to the fact that her bow isn't immersed as deeply as heavier boats like PARADOX. I think the main benefit that I've noticed with this feature is that the bow doesn't get blown off as easily while sculling upwind. However, to be honest, the "v" was most likely employed to help stiffen up the already thin 3/8" bottom. 

Maybe a more interesting question you might ask yourself is what would have happened to PARADOX if she was hit by a 40 foot rowing shell traveling at a high rate of speed. On ENIGMA the damage was focused primarily to an area 10" x 6". When I cut out all the bad wood to do the repair (see my upcoming article at Microcruising.com), there was little delamination beyond this zone. But on PARADOX her sides are much thicker, and Matt Layden told me after looking at the damage that the shell might not have pierced a the bigger boat's hull at all. However, the severe impact could very well have delaminated the plywood cores over a much great area creating a problematic repair. So in effect the lighter sides on ENIGMA acted as a sort of crumple zone as the shell penetrated the hull easily and then allowed both boats to glide together in the water to a slower less abrupt stop. I've also wondered what would have happened to Sven Yrvind's new sailboat in such a collision. Would the rowing shell pierce the outer skin and then lodge into the thick divinycell core? 

Ultimately, I'm thinking it's probably better to have the thicker hull in PARADOX so that no water enters the boat to sink you after a collision. Afterwards, you could get back to shore at your own convenience to affect repairs. In my case as soon as ENIGMA was seperated from the scull water started pouring into the hole, and I had to lean the boat to one side to prevent any further flooding while I was towed promptly to shore. Had this happened far out to sea, I would have needed to stuff something into the hole to avoid a serious situation from developing.

As for correcting the potential widespread delamination in a PARADOX collision, I'm thinking it might be easy enough to just drill a bunch of holes partially though the inside of the damaged hull. Then through these holes, epoxy could be poured in and weights could be added to press the seperated layers back together while the boat was supported firmly on its side. When the glue cured, the holes could be smoothed over with filler, touch up paint could be applied, and your PARADOX could be ready to cruise once again.