From: Glen Maxwell <blueketch@hotmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 19 Aug 2013 11:27:13 -0400
Subject: Re: Don Elliot's book?

Kellan, the following text was taken from the micro cruisers group files section and I believe the information is still true but I haven't tried it.

The Building Paradox booklet 

The "Building Paradox" series of articles is ready for immediate shipping.There are some fifty pages and 16 Chapters, and it is in booklet form. TheParadox Booklet includes a detailed description of Paradox, withanalysis of the design, along with detailed building instructions. 

The Paradox series booklet is fully illustrated, this greatly acceleratesthe Paradox building process. (The Booklet is only available at this time asprinted pages only.)(Write to Delliott@tomah.com or Don54660@Yahoo.com for more information.)

Orders in the USA:
The price of the Building Paradox Booklet is $10.00 plus $2.00 shipping(USA). Payment can be in the form of cash, check, money order or usingPayPal. (For PayPal use my e-mail address and the mail address shown below.)In the states if you wish faster shipping, it may be shipped by air (2-3days USA) with a shipping cost of $4.00 (First class shipping.)

Overseas orders:
If you happen to live overseas the cost is $10.00 plus $4.00 shipping(USD).Or $8.00 for Air mail which is much faster.

Send your order to: Don Elliott, 711 Wisconsin Ave, Box 202,Tomah, Wisconsin, 54660 USA.
You Paradox booklet will be sent the same day I receive the order. Apersonal (USA) check or money order is fine in states, or cash wrapped inheavy paper and placed in a sealed envelope.

Overseas order payments can be safely made with cash, this is done by putcash (USA dollars) wrapped in heavy paper or cardboard and placed in anenvelope, thissaves the expense of an international money order, I have received paymentsof this kind from many countries all over the World with no problemwhatsoever.

Thanks for the interest in the Paradox building article and Paradox. Cheers,
Don Elliott