From: "kbgwp" <kbgwp@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 23 Aug 2013 01:14:36 -0000
Subject: The Paradox Boat Building Manual

I just got this message from Wanda Elliot about the Paradox Boat Building Manual.

The Paradox Boat Building Manual is still available and I would greatly appreciate it if you post the information for the Paradox Builders group to see. I do plan on getting a website for Don's Booklets soon. Here is the info for ordering the Paradox PDF. Thank you for your interest and help.

Sincerely,

Wanda Elliott

Below is a standard ordering form: This is for the new Paradox builder's manual.

The "Building Paradox" series of articles is ready for immediate shipping.
There are some eighty pages and 16 Chapters, and is available in PDF file format (E-mailed directly to you).
Using PayPal is the fastest way to receive the booklet. If you need more information on how to do this please let me know. PayPal payments are made to rite2wanda@yahoo.com. Note there is no shipping charge at all for orders sent by Email as a PDF.

The Building Paradox Booklet includes a detailed description of Paradox, with analysis of the design, along with detailed building instructions. Included is a new and enlarged section on making and installing Paradox's ballast weights.

The Paradox series booklet is fully illustrated (Over 100), this greatly accelerates the Paradox building process.

The price of the Building Paradox PDF is $18.00.

Payment can be in the form of personal check, money order or cash, or if on the Internet by using PayPal. (For a PayPal payment simply use my e-mail address rite2wanda@yahoo.com Or order by regular mail service using the address shown below.) Overseas orders for the PDF version using PayPal automatically provides an automatic currency conversion. Of course no shipping charge for the PDF version

Send your order to: 

Wanda Elliott
711 Wisconsin Ave, Box 202,
Tomah, Wisconsin, 54660 USA.

Your Paradox booklet will be sent the same day I receive the order. A personal (USA) check, PayPal or money order is fine in states, or cash wrapped in heavy paper and placed in a sealed envelope.

Overseas order payments other than PayPal if desired may be safely
made with cash, this is done by placing the cash (USA dollars) wrapped in heavy paper or cardboard and placing it in an envelope, this saves the expense of an international money order, I have received payments of this kind from many countries all over the World with no problem whatsoever. However PayPal is easier and less expensive. If PayPal and a PDF booklet ordered it is sent to you immediately by E-mail, same day. Make PayPal payment to; rite2wanda@yahoo.com.  Sincerely, Wanda Elliott

In 2003 Paradox won a 300 mile race against all comers, by a full day!! Cheers, Don Elliott