From: John Starkie <john.starkie@talk21.com>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Sep 2013 17:31:05 +0100 (BST)
Subject: Re: Charcoal Heater

Some of us build and some of us sail, and some do a bit of both.
There's no rule that says you must sail the boat you build,
or even that you must build the boat you sail.

I'm busy making dumb-sheaves and blocks for a boat I may never build, let alone sail.

From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> 
Date: Wednesday, 4 September 2013, 16:56
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] RE: Charcoal Heater
 
Hi Brian

Thanks for the interesting reply. I don't want to sound discouraging, but can only suggest that you get one of the boats that you've already built sailing before starting a new project. Until you've tried it, you won't even know if you'll like sailing, so perhaps best not to spend any more of your resources on more boat building until then.

Good luck to you anyway, whatever course you steer in future..

Best

Jim

From: "kbgwp@yahoo.com" <kbgwp@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Date: Tuesday, 3 September 2013, 20:54
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] RE: Charcoal Heater

Thanks for the tips and the new picture Jim,

I'm still waiting for the printed plans to get here. I guess someone in the post office wanted them first. Dave Bolduc did E-mail me the PDF version and I printed them out on 8-1/2 x 11 paper so I can study them. I still would like to have the actual printed plans just to be able to scale the print but the PDF should work for now. Dave offered to resend them if I don't get them and I might take him up on that if they don't show up in another week or two. I might just work from the PDF plans since I don't expect Dave is making much if anything on the plans. If he has to resend them, I expect he would be loosing money and it isn't really his fault although it isn't my fault either.

Anyway, I expect it will be years before I build the Paradox mainly due to the cost of materials. The heater was just a distraction to keep me busy while I waited for the plans. I'm studying the drawings and the build manual to try to figure things out before I make the first purchase of materials. I might not ever get started but the dream is there and I'm a step or two closer to making it happen since I bought the plans and the build manual now. If I take it a little bit at a time, I might eventually end up with the boat. It does look like pretty much what I am after (A small sail boat with a cabin to camp in). It is heavier than I really wanted so I might scale back to the Enigma or even the Elusion if I can figure up plans for them but the Paradox would probably be a better boat that would be capable of bigger dreams. Either way, the plans will help me understand how Matt designed this boat and the build manual has information that will be helpful no matter what boat I eventually build.

By the way, I have built two smaller boats so far. One was David Beede's Summer Breeze and the other one was a one sheet boat that I designed myself. I'm still working on the sailing parts for both of those boats. I have yet to sail any boat so the Paradox is a big jump in complexity and cost for me. I feel confident that I could do it if I can spread the cost out over time.

Brian in PA

From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> 
Date: Tuesday, 3 September 2013, 0:12
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] RE: Charcoal Heater

Your description of my heater is about right.- made from 2 inch dia copper tube with ends brazed on and about 6 inches high. The flexible flue pipe is getting a bit rusty now , but it's only surface rust and will last a bit longer yet. I also use a chimney extension -which is made from a bit of old vacuum cleaner tube which I found at the dump