From: André-François <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: My first impressions with Paradox
Date: Sat, 21 Sep 2013 21:01:47 -0400

Hi everyone, thought you might like to have the impressions of a beginner sailor face to face with a Paradox.  My sailing experience, as I've previously stated, amounts to sailing a Siren 17 for a couple of years, many adventures though (another story).  In brief, scared myself plenty.  This is one of the reasons which convinced me to buy Steve Yahn's Paradox “Ironsides”.  Thanks Steve, RIP.

When I first met Ironsides last spring, I was really surprised by it's size, especially the narrow width, but I thought the boat looked “cool”.  The boat was in great shape, hardly any work to do on it.  Looking back, I now realize just how lucky I am to have obtained this wonderful boat, especially when I see all the trouble Bill Sergeant is going through to get “Minnow” (Enuf) back into shape.

With a two week holiday, I flew into Seattle, shuttled to Olympia, rented a pickup truck and went to pick up the boat in Port Orchard, an hour's drive away.  The only evident problem was the trailer: it was in bad shape, as Steve had warned me.  I did make it back to Olympia and headed to a campground to evaluate.

I was lucky to make it.  Once there, I noticed a major crack in the trailer- it was obviously completely shot.  To make a long story short, it took me 8 days to find a good trailer on Craigslist, find a do-it-yourself garage to modify it, and drive over to the river to switch the trailers. (BTW, a straight trailer with 2 x 8's jacked two inches at each end works like a charm- more on this if anyone is interested- I've got photos).

When I drove the boat to the water a slight 2 miles away, luck would have it the State Patrol showed up behind me. Luckily he didn't notice the lack of license plate (I had switched it to the other trailer). Finally, I backed the boat into the water and pulled up the old trailer, when it actually broke completely in half right there.  Actually, it's the boat that was holding up the trailer and not vice versa.  And at the front and back only!  That Paradox is tough!

I got in the Paradox on the small creek and tried to use the Yuloh to transfer it to the new trailer.  I was astounded by the stability, less so by the Yuloh which kept popping out of it's socket- bad technique, I assumed.  But I'm an expert canoeist, so I used the Yuloh as a paddle to scull the boat into position on the new trailer. (Later, I used my pocket knife to dig the socket deeper; that solved the problem, the Yuloh now works like a charm).

Steve was a wonderfully helpful person and a really fine gentleman, but he was on morphine when I met him, and had limited energy to explain the boat to me.  So I was basically on my own.  Took me three days to figure out the sail and lines and practice dry runs on getting it up and down again.  The whole deal seemed very stiff to me and I had a helluva time dragging that sail up, and especially roll it up again, really had to pull on the sheets with all my might.  Looking at the plans, I finally noticed that Steve had built the yard backwards, with the heavy end on the wrong side.  Building a new yard with pocket knife and hand saw helped a bit.  But it was still a chore to get the sail up and down.  I finally left it as is, wanted to go sailing.  I also had to fix the one hurt in the boat, the sliding hatch railing had partly rotted out.  Another temporary fix with pocket knife, new chisel and hand saw.

I now only had three days left, but I had cleaned the interior and slept in the boat 5 times already. For cleaning, the fold away storage bins at the back are genius, as are the handles located just right for lifting oneself up from reclining to sitting position. Also loved the way I could rest my feet up on the front shelf.

Finally got to a small lake, too windy for me, I turned disappointed.  Finally, I ended up on the shores of Black lake where I was alone and decided to at least get the boat in the water and tie it to the dock.  All went well.  Actually, I was surprised at how easy it was to move the boat over to the dock with lines.  I was also impressed by how easy it is to put things into the boat from the dock, because it's so narrow, you just drop things in.  And the back deck is really useful as a “table” to lay things on.  It was now near dark, and quite windy, but I was in a calm bay and had a great night's sleep, after supper of french fries and steak cooked inside the boat.

Next morning, it was time to sail.  Check the difference here between Sean and I!  I put out a 100 foot rope tied to the dock to test out the Yuloh, so I could pull myself back in if need be.  Lo and behold, no problem, I could make my way against the slight wind. So I felt courageous enough to head up the lake with the sail.  At first, I wasn't making any progress.  I obviously didn't have enough sail out, and the boat's chines weren't “biting”.  So I ended up missing my first tack, and ended up being blown to shore on the other side of the lake.  Darn!  But again, the yuloh came out and I just beached the boat.  After relaxing a bit, I poled the boat around and was heading upwind again.  This time I let out some sail and managed fine, except for one turn which I missed- but I had left myself enough room to try again.  Finally decided to put the sail up all the way, winds were slight after all, and I was gaining confidence.  All went well from there on and I managed my way to 3/4 of the way from the end of Black Lake, when the wind completely died.  The yuloh completed the ride into the cattails at the end. There I anchored to wait for wind.  Cooked lunch, had a nap, and even paddled my inflatable packboat to pay a visit to the turtles. Lovely.

With only the very slightest wind which finally came up, I managed to skim back under full sail.  In a T-shirt only, once I caught the wind, the Paradox really started to impress me.  Especially when I got chilly and just closed up the hatch for a half-hour.  The way back was utterly wonderful, and I got to briefly taste what this boat was all about.  Pure delight.   As a professional outdoorsman, I have camped small all of my life.  This boat is really for me. Just feels right.

Now, if only it wasn't 5500 km away.  I've just retired, but still, I have to make a plan to bring it home.  Perhaps I'll just go sail Puget Sound first, as I had planned to do last time (wishful thinking), then put it on the train.  Or maybe I'll leave it there and take an extended trip out west this winter and down through the southern states.  Hey, all options are open, but I do have a wife and 14 year old daughter as part of the equation.

Looking forward to sharing more stories in the near future.

André-François