From: <nebwest2@aol.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: 01 Oct 2013 01:06:32 -0700
Subject: Re: Scout Update... Working it all out...

Good info on the Yuloh page you linked...thank you.I will study its content.

Sean 

---

I think I have to disagree with you john on the tacking angle and using the GPS COG function to figure it out.  COG gives you your true direction of travel and automatically accounts for leeway and or tide or current. I am sailing in an area with little to no current or tide. I don't really care so much about the compass heading of the boat when I have the ability to use COG. Compass heading and true course are often quite different heading hard on the wind due to leeway. What I want to know is the true split between the COG on each tack and that paints a picture for me of the true tacking angle.

As for lighting....In the US here are the regulations:

1. Sidelights are red (port) and green (starboard) and shine from dead ahead to 112.5° aft on either side.
2. Stern lights are white and shine aft and 67.5° forward on each side. (Thus, the sidelights and stern light create a full circle of light.)
3. All-round lights are white and shine through 360°.
4. Masthead lights are white and shine from 112.5° on the port side through dead ahead to 112.5° on the starboard side. They must be above the sidelights.
5. Sailboats under power are considered powerboats.
6. Sidelights may be combined into a single "bicolor" light.
7. Powerboats less than 20m (65.5') in length need to show sidelights, a stern light and a masthead light. Power vessels less than 12m may show a single all-round light in lieu of the separate masthead and stern lights.
8. Sailing vessels less than 20m in length need to show sidelights and a stern light. These may be combined into a bicolor light and stern light, or a single tricolor light at the top of the mast. Sailing vessels under 7m must have an electric torch or lantern available for collision avoidance.
9. Oar-driven vessels can show either the sailboat lights, or use the electric torch/lantern option.
10. When anchored outside a special anchorage, power and sail vessels under 20m must display an all-round light. Vessels under 7m are exempt, unless anchored in a narrow channel or anchorage, or where other vessels usually navigate.
11. Sailboats with sails up during the day, but which are also under power, must fly a black "steaming cone," with its point downward, where it can be seen. When under power they must follow the rules of the road for powerboats.

As you can see...sailboats under power must be lit as a powerboat since you relinquish the right of way of a sailing vessel when under power. 

The "Ball" you speak of is actually a steaming cone. No, I don't use one, never have, don't know anyone that does, and have not actually ever seen on used (that's not to say that they are not) I have found that most of the time when it is brought up is exactly in this situation when someone is gonna pick at you a bit about lighting rules and regs. :-)

Am I using a "real" Yuloh or a sculling or???  LOL  Hmmmmmm  Obviously I haven't put that much thought into it. I have a yuloh that is built to the "yuloh" dimensions given in the plans for the Paradox.  To make it simpler we can say I have  a wood stick that I wave back and forth in the water and magically make the boat go forward. That way I don't get caught using the wrong term...since I don't know the difference!  LOL  ;;-)

Sean