From: <nebwest2@aol.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: 06 Dec 2013 21:55:11 -0800
Subject: Re: Topping lift

I'm new to sailing the Paradox so this may be spot on...or it may be total gibberish! LOL You make the call.

As others described, I find raising the sail is easy with or without the topping lift. For me, lowering is where it comes in handy and here's why: If I do not take up tension on the topping lift before even a slight amount of tension is removed from the halyard, the instant the tension from the halyard is removed the boom moves forward, causes the the strop to lean forward, and furling drum to move forward in relation to the hole in the deck where the halyard exits from the vent box. This causes the "pull" from the halyard to not be directly inline with the fairlead to the drum (as it is when the strop is in the near vertical position). Doing so, makes quite a bit more pull necessary on the furling line to get the drum to rotate.

If I tighten the topping lift just prior to easing the halyard, the front and rear of the boom are supported, resulting in it holding position, the strop remains nearly vertical, and the furling line leads fair to the fairlead and drum. That makes the drum rotate much easier for me. Thinking about this....I wonder if I had placed the hole for the halyard to exit the deck further forward, if that would have alleviated the issue. Alas, I did not. LOL

Scout has an external halyard and topping lift. I can see that there is a lot of line and drag up there compared to the design of no topping lift and an internal halyard.

One thing I have learned, at least for Scout....is the first move I make if I am going to tighten or take in the furling line...is to tighten the topping lift FIRST (TIGHT!), then make the adjustment, then back off the topping lift so as not to interfere with the sail set. It has made life a lot easier when I remember to do this. When I don't the pull needed on the furling line is fairly excessive if the strop leans forward.

I am also considering adding some crescent shape wood pieces to each side of the square center shaft of the furling drum. That would change the center of the drum from a square, to a circlular profile and increase it's diameter slightly...effectively making it rotate smoother and act as if in a lower gear. If I make this change I will photo, document, test and share results.

Sean