From: <nebwest2@aol.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Short video clips of Scout sailing today in 15-25
Date: 11 Dec 2013 09:05:28 -0800


Al...

In more benign conditions I believe I am tacking through between 90 and 95 degrees. I based this off of some GPS tracks I saved. In conditions such as in the video where it is very gusty with gusts hitting well up over the 20 range at times....I don't think I am tacking anywhere near that close. The reason is this. The boat and rig is still capable of holding the same angle to the wind, however,what I have experienced is that if there is a pretty good wind chop going on.(meaning wind chop in the order it 1.5 to 2') I find that if I try to point as high as I do in smoother water I have a hard time maintaining good speed. I seem to do better cracking off a bit and allowing Scout to keep her forward momentum up. I'm not sure what angle I am holding but it is significantly higher (wider) than in smoother conditions.  I may be over exaggerating this as I am still looking for the "sweet spot". This last time out I think that I have come to the realization that the biggest problem I was having was under canvassing the boat. I was looking a the conditions and furling down the sail , more out of anticipation and nervousness, rather than what I was really experiencing. One thing that has helped me tremendously is just getting out there and sailing in stronger breezes. I have come to be more and more comfortable with the boat and have now lost initial concerns I had about her stability. She is fine to lay right over on her side, with the side deck awash (from a safety standpoint). As soon as the pressure on the sheet is eased or she is headed up, she stands right back up. Getting to this point in my trust of the design was critical. Once I started feeling comfortable about that, I was comfortable  throwing some more sail out there. More sail area has resulted in much better power and drive.  Somewhere there is a happy medium of sail area/power-needed/windspeed/heeling. I am still searching for that. Dave mentioned to me in a post that he likes to sail the boat flatter than I am. I put a lot of weight behind any advice I would get from him for obvious reasons. So I will keep playing around with different settings. 

In all but the strongest of conditions so far I have mastered getting her around on a tack. Once in  a while in the strongest of breezes I have been in , if I get slapped with some big windchop while coming head to wind, I have stalled out. Advice I have received from other Paradox guys has helped me a lot here. I now make sure to carry as much speed as possible into the tack, get my weight as far forward as possible while coming around, feed the rudder in smoothly rather than jerking it over and making a speed brake out of it, and watch the incoming chop and swell so as to try not to tack right into a large wave and kill the speed of the turn.  Worse case scenario, I keep the paddle at the ready and if she needs a nudge across the eye of the wind, I give it to her. No big deal. It seems that as I work on my technique I have had to do this less and less. 

One thing that is marvelous about the design is the reefing ability. Knowing I can shorten sail in 20 seconds or less, and on almost any point of sail without even heading up....is so incredibly confidence building in the boat/design, that I am stumped why I have been sailing for my whole life and never exposed to this system before. It is simply awesome. 

I am now confident that in "lake conditions" I can crawl upwind off a leeward shore in 25 knots which I believe is really saying something for a flat bottomed boat. I've got some more learning to do here on my local waters and then it will be time to make trip to the coast and try some sailing in the steadier breezes but larger rolling swell of the Pacific. I am really looking forward to that! 

With respect to "You are now doomed to go through life with people refusing to believe your sailing accounts." I know.  You gotta see it to believe it.  

My buddies that were taking the footage from their San Juan 23 were blown away that Scout was handling the conditions like she was. Upwind, of course they left me, however, Don told me that when we both turned downwind, he turned to Kiko and said, "well, we are gonna haul butt now and really leave Scout behind".  Nope! LOL  Holy Smokes! talk about an E-ticket ride!  Scout was hot on their heels busting up into the 6's and I even got one momentary blast to 7.1 when a big piece of chop picked me up and scooted us along. After about 2 miles of downwind we were arriving back at the marina and Scout was still right there with the SJ. Don said he couldn't believe it. :-)   Of course I was grinning ear to ear!