From: "paradox@as6jg.freeuk.com" 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Subject: Re: Short video clips of Scout sailing today in 15-25 
Date: Wed, 11 Dec 2013 20:22:58 -0000 

On 11 Dec 2013 at 9:05, nebwest2@aol.com wrote:

 In more benign conditions I believe I am tacking through between 90
 and 95 degrees. I based this off of some GPS tracks I saved.

This is comforting, I had estimated something similar myself, but 
found it hard to believe

 In
 conditions such as in the video where it is very gusty with gusts
 hitting well up over the 20 range at times....I don't think I am
 tacking anywhere near that close. The reason is this. The boat and
 rig is still capable of holding the same angle to the wind,
 however,what I have experienced is that if there is a pretty good
 wind chop going on.(meaning wind chop in the order it 1.5 to 2') I
 find that if I try to point as high as I do in smoother water I have
 a hard time maintaining good speed. I seem to do better cracking off
 a bit and allowing Scout to keep her forward momentum up. I'm not
 sure what angle I am holding but it is significantly higher (wider)
 than in smoother conditions.  I may be over exaggerating this as I am
 still looking for the "sweet spot".

I agree, it is important to keep the speed up

This last time out I think that I
 have come to the realization that the biggest problem I was having
 was under canvassing the boat. I was looking a the conditions and
 furling down the sail , more out of anticipation and nervousness,
 rather than what I was really experiencing. One thing that has helped
 me tremendously is just getting out there and sailing in stronger
 breezes. I have come to be more and more comfortable with the boat
 and have now lost initial concerns I had about her stability. She is
 fine to lay right over on her side, with the side deck awash (from a
 safety standpoint). As soon as the pressure on the sheet is eased or
 she is headed up, she stands right back up. Getting to this point in
 my trust of the design was critical. Once I started feeling
 comfortable about that, I was comfortable  throwing some more sail
 out there. More sail area has resulted in much better power and
 drive.  Somewhere there is a happy medium of sail
 area/power-needed/windspeed/heeling. I am still searching for that.

I too have found myself over-reefing, but have found that, while 
going through a tack, I can raise or lower the sail about 6 inches to 
fine tune things.

  Dave mentioned to me in a post that he likes to sail the boat flatter
  than I am. I put a lot of weight behind any advice I would get from
  him for obvious reasons. So I will keep playing around with different
  settings. 

I reckon that about 20 degrees is the optimum heel angle

 In all but the strongest of conditions so far I have mastered getting
 her around on a tack. Once in  a while in the strongest of breezes I
 have been in , if I get slapped with some big windchop while coming
 head to wind, I have stalled out. Advice I have received from other
 Paradox guys has helped me a lot here. I now make sure to carry as
 much speed as possible into the tack, get my weight as far forward as
 possible while coming around, feed the rudder in smoothly rather than
 jerking it over and making a speed brake out of it, and watch the
 incoming chop and swell so as to try not to tack right into a large
 wave and kill the speed of the turn.  Worse case scenario, I keep the
 paddle at the ready and if she needs a nudge across the eye of the
 wind, I give it to her. No big deal. It seems that as I work on my
 technique I have had to do this less and less. 

It still happens to me, occasionally, when I am not concentrating. 
You seem to be developing the right technique. The wind blown chop is 
the worst.

 One thing that is marvelous about the design is the reefing ability.
 Knowing I can shorten sail in 20 seconds or less, and on almost any
 point of sail without even heading up....is so incredibly confidence
 building in the boat/design, that I am stumped why I have been
 sailing for my whole life and never exposed to this system before. It
 is simply awesome. 

As with many other things Paradox I am at a loss to know why people 
put up with "standard" dinghies. I have to keep biting my tongue when 
people are discussing their problems, so as not to sound too smug.
 
 I am now confident that in "lake conditions" I can crawl upwind off a
 leeward shore in 25 knots which I believe is really saying something
 for a flat bottomed boat. 

On one memorable occasion I had made the mistake of landing on a lee 
shore in a 20knt wind. This was in an estuary so the waves were not 
significant. To get off I hoist sail then, standing behind the boat, 
pointed it into the wind, dropped the rudder onto the mud and pushed 
into deeper water. By putting one foot on the boarding step I was 
able to scoot the boat clear of the shore then climb over the aft 
deck and take control of the sheet and rudder. It was surprisingly 
easy and left my friends, in conventional dinghies, open mouthed. 
None of them were able to sail off and eventually I set an anchor and 
floated a fender down to them so I could pull them off into water 
deep enough for their centre boards.

I've got some more learning to do here on
 my local waters and then it will be time to make trip to the coast
 and try some sailing in the steadier breezes but larger rolling swell
 of the Pacific. I am really looking forward to that! 

A big swell is no problem. From a handling point of view you have 
probably seen the worst with a 2ft wind blown chop.

Of course waves breaking on a reef or beach is another matter .......

--
Hoping for calm nights

Alastair Law
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>