From: Robert McFetridge <mcfetr@rogers.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 4 Jan 2014 14:02:40 -0500
Subject: Re: Wood Stove Idea for Paradox

I am new to your group and have to date found it really interesting simply just read and learn. On this subject however, which pops up routinely on many sites and has been fodder in magazines for years, I hope I can add some useful thoughts.

Yes Winter did a short piece on his site about this idea as have many others. There has been lots of discussion over the years on the use of clay flower pots on stoves etc as well. Yes they add an element of control for heating but the 2 most important components of safe and comfortable heating remain a challenge. Both are the result of lack of ventilation (chimney). These are increased CO2 accumulating in the cabin and secondly increased humidity in the cabin. A third is the very scary notion of having small portable fires in the cabin of a very small boat.

Our direct experience with this is quite a number of years ago when we were cruising on our old 26ft (folkboat type). We had a kerosene Force 10 heater with a chimney in the forecastle. It was the smallest I could find at the time for heat output and it was serious overkill but it kept us very warm and the cabin completely dry even up under the cockpit tent. The 30ft boat of fellow travellers used a couple of clay pots on their galley stove. Their boat was just as warm but it was stuffy and dank because of the increased CO2 and humidity. That 2ft length of 1=94 diameter chimney made all the difference. It always felt a bit uncomfortable in their boat whereas ours was just like home. This was witnessed by the constant visits of other sailors on much larger boats at anchor who would just drop by to warm up!

I think that its quite possible to build a small kerosene or similar fuel burner into a safe small stove that would include a proper small chimney. I would think it quite easy to make something that could be disassembled and stored when not needed and that would be a whole lot safer than candles under a clay pot. 

As basic criteria, it would need a proper place to be mounted securely when in use, with insulation for the immediate surrounding and a 2-3ft chimney pipe up through the deck/coach roof. I think it would be a really interesting challenge to design a small safe and secure heater for a microcruiser. It would add significant comfort after a cold and/or wet day of sailing and even help to extend the season.

I think there are a number of potentially workable sites for such a heater in a Paradox.

I agree that in very small boats a woodstove would be a very scary option.

Bob