From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Dec 2002 12:13:35 -0500
Subject: Re: Building encouragement

I'm not sure, Lothar, how I can elaborate any more on the subject then was done at the site you directed us to. In regards to Paradox I haven't taken the time to figure out the CLR. I only glanced at the article to which you directed us so I'm not sure if it was covered, but the way to find CLR is really low tech. You take a scale drawing of the vessel in question and cut out the under water profile with any appendages (rudder, keel, ect.) being sure to cut out any openings like prop openings in rudders. Once you have the underbody cut out you fanfold it in such away that it becomes stiff, now you take and balance it on a knife edge. The point at where it balances is the CLR. It is equally low tech finding the CE of the sail. In this case cut out a scale drawing of your sail and using a pin to which a string has been attached with a weight on the other end (ballpoint pen) pierce each corner in turn and let the sail hang down. I usually pin it to the wall. After making sure the sail is freely hanging by swinging it a few times, draw a line down the side of the string. You will come out with a peaked hat area, or in the case of the Paradox a four sided area bounded by the lines you just drew. The CE lies at the center of it. I don't have a scale drawing of Paradox with the rudder in the down position so I haven't taken the time to go through the exercise. Also, with respect to the CLR, the above does not take into account the chine runners on the Paradox which have an area of approximately 2 square feet. The sail plan on the Paradox can be moved fore and aft a considerable amount by repositioning the halyard attach point on the yard and by changing the length of the tack fitting, thereby allowing you to balance the helm or add weather helm if so desired. Lee helm is not desirable in a boat because should a single handed sailor fall overboard the boat would sail away from him. In the case of the Paradox where the helmsman's weight plays a large part in the balance of the sail plan, should he fall overboard the resulting loss of weight aft will throw the boat into a lee helm situation and she will jibe off down wind so be careful. As a safety note, a Coast guardsman once told me that 90% of all drown men they recover had their fly open. Since learning of that many years ago I have been urinating into a jug and pouring it overboard.

Tailwinds
Glen