From: nebwest2@aol.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 27 Jan 2014 23:01:13 -0800
Subject: Re: First try with my Paradox

Andre,

Don't get discouraged! And I actually took the 'dox out in light winds the first time I took her out too. :-)

I can only speak to Scout as she is the only 'dox I have seen or sailed...so keep that in mind.

ON Scout I deviated from the designed rig by making the halyard a 2:1 system. It makes the weight of the yard feel 50% lighter, the positive benefit, but makes you haul/release twice as much line in and out as a negative. Not a big deal though. The way I did this was to run the halyard through the pulley at the top of the mast and then instead of just down to the yard and dead ending....(making a 1:1) I installed a pulley on the yard, ran the halyard through it and then back up to the top of the mast and dead ended it at the block up there. A block with a becket would be perfect. That gives you a 2:1, cuts the effort to raise the yard in half, and also allows tightening the halyard tension much tighter to get better luff tension on the sail for windward work.

ON Scout the trick to really ease reefing/unreefing is to pull the topping lift up really tight while operating the furling system. The reason this seems to make the furler work easier is that it causes the tack strop to stand straight up and that makes the lead of the furling line nice and fair from the deck, through the fairlead on the strop and onto the drum. If the topping lift is not tight and the halyard tension is allowed to slack just a bit too much, the boom moves forward, the strop leans forward, and the angle that the furling line has to negotiate from the deck to fairlead to drum becomes very acute....no longer pulling in line and causing lots of friction. My process of operating the furler always begins with tightening up the topping lift as tight as I can get it just prior to operating the furler, and after the furler operation is done, releasing the tension on the furler so that it doesn't impede the sail shape (especially off the wind). A very big downside of the topping lift is if you get the front of the yard on one side of it and the aft end of the yard on the other. You then can only raise the sail until the yard reaches the branch in the "Y" formed by the two legs of the topping lift. Great care has to be taken on the initial hoist of the sail to make sure the halyard and both sides of the yard are all on the same side of the yard. Once the sail is hoisted a few feet on Scout...it cannot get on the wrong side, but during the first couple of feet, great care must be exercised to get it on the right side.

If the mainsheet wrapped the boom, whatever bracket he has the mainsheet attached to must have bound up and rotated with the boom when you were furling. I use a solid stainless chainplate for the mainsheet attachment. If it is mounted to the boom about midway and extends above and below the boom. The topping lift is attached to the top and the mainsheet to the bottom. This helps prevent it from rotating when the boom rotates. Also, it is a pretty thick piece of stainless and very stiff. It does not flex much. I initially tried using a much thinner stainless "Racelite" tang as called for but found that it would flex inward and as the corners of the square boom rotated around they would hang up on the tang as it flexed inward. Changing to the heavier gauge chainplate resolved that.

I have done about everything you described when learning about Scout (and I am still learning). Just don't put that stuff in my videos! What a fraud huh?!?!? LOL Hang in there. Get her back, straighten everything out and take her out again. You'll figure out what she needs and likes, and you'll do just fine. The Paradox is an extremely "different" boat. That's it's great strength, but also makes it a little different to get used to. You'll get it!

Would have loved to have seen you here in Havasu. Had no idea you were that close. Next time you gotta stop by.

I know that all the other guys will chime in with input based on all their experiences which dwarf mine. They have all been Very Very Helpful....so now I will shut up, sit back, and with you ...I will learn from their experiences too. You really gotta love what the internet has done for us.

CONGRATS on getting your 'Dox. The next trip out is gonna go even better!!!

:-)

Sean