From: Stephen Barwell <surfgarden@yahoo.com.au>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Tue, 28 Jan 2014 19:32:46 +1100
Subject: Re: First try with my Paradox

I hope you add to the Paradox owner builder photos the selfie you took where you break two ribs, that's got to be good.
Steve Barwell
North Stradbroke Island
Queensland
Australia 4381



On 28/01/2014, at 3:33 PM, Dr André-François Bourbeau <bourbeau@videotron.ca> wrote:

Hi folks,

It's about time I gave news.  Left Qu=C3=A9bec in eastern Canada last November to drive across North America to Washington State to pick up my Paradox,  the one built by Steve Yahn which he had tentatively named Ironsides (still looking for a good new name).  I was touring at the same time, so I got to the boat Mid December and started going south along the Oregon coast.  It was too cold to sail comfortably, and since I'm a beginner sailor, the ocean intimated me.

When I finally made it to warmer weather near San Francisco and was getting psyched for sailing, I had to leave everything in storage and fly back home for my wife's dad had passed away just before Christmas.  My family flew back with me to California for some vacation time, and teenage tourist sights were more important than sailing.  But in fact, on the entire California coast, I only found two places where I could have launched the boat.  Some marinas have 9000 boats, but every slip is private or reserved for club members.  And on those two occasions, the timing was wrong, as I arrived by night, and timetable was night.

When I drove my family to the Phoenix airport in Arizona and was alone again, you can imagine that I was really anxious to go sailing.  But as you may know,  there is no water in the US southwest, other than the Colorado river. (I almost went to Lake Havasu to see if I could meet up with Sean, but that would have been 8 hours of extra driving- and I was anxious to move eastward). After much driving (8000+ miles thus far) I finally made it to Texas' lake Amistad two weeks ago. Lake Amistad is perfect for a beginner sailor like me.  But I couldn't sail.  You see, I broke two ribs while hiking the day before I got here (while taking a picture of myself, of all things).  So I had to wait the last two weeks staring at the perfect lake until I healed enough to pull up the sail.

Long story short, only yesterday was I finally able to put the boat in the water.  Contrary to Sean, who went out first time in 20+knot winds (with all my admiration), I waited until perfect easy weather with light winds.  And contrary to Sean, everything did not go so well.  First of all, the ramp wasn't deep enough and I had the hardest time pushing the boat off the trailer and into the water. But from there all was good, for about an hour and a half, with light contrary winds which I tacked against without trouble.  Then dead calm for half an hour, as I ate lunch sitting still in the middle, nice.  Then a light gust and I was off again.  Then a harder gust.  Then it really started blowing a twirling wind, in the exact opposite direction, so I had to beat to windward to go back.  I reefed to two thirds and was still below my comfort limit, so I thought I should reef some more.  But as I did so, I kinda dropped the halyard and the sail fell partly down.  When I pulled back up, the yard got jammed into the topping lift which then wound around the sail I was reefing.  The topping lift also pulled the sheet with it, so it also got rolled up as well.  And I was afraid to raise all back up again for fear of having too much sail out in the puffs.

But even with the sail all screwed up, that Paradox sailed upwind on a starboard tack.  I almost made the turn to the bay and the awaiting launching ramp thusly, but missed by less than a hundred feet.  I had to tack.  But on the port tack the boat wouldn't go upwind at all, the sail was too deformed.  In fact I lost control of the boat and could not steer it anymore.  So I let it go downwind, I had no choice.  Tried to reef some more without success, everything was jammed.  So I simply reached up, pulled everything into a bundle by hand, and wrapped a rope around and tied it off.  With the yuloh, I headed into a small cove and beached the boat.  By the time I had sorted everything out, the wind had become too fierce for me.  So I tied the boat to shore and to an anchor and left it there, where it sits as I write this.  A winter storm has hit Texas and I will have to wait a couple of days for better weather to get the boat and try again to do better.

My main problem with the boat is reefing.  Even with the topping lift, I can't seem to roll up the last three feet, no matter how hard I pull.  Steve Yahn didn't build the roller arm quite as per plan, and that might be an issue.  (He used a stainless steel swivel instead of the rope in a pipe).  But even in the best of worlds, that sail plus boom and yard is heavy.  I would be curious to know what that weight should be.

During my adventure, even if I had sweaty palms, at no point was I really scared, the boat is very forgiving.  I suppose all of you good sailors have many such stories to tell, sorry if I have bored you with my long yarn.  Hey, it was my first try!

And yes, I had my marine radio and had checked the weather.  Gusts weren't predicted until midnight, they came at 4 o'clock.

All advice is welcome.  How hard is it supposed to be to put up sail and to reef this boat?  Now I understand why Matt Layden suggested the topping lift might not be such a good idea.  And without it, how hard is it supposed to be to put up sail and to reef?

Appreciate your help.  And Sean, Al, Jim, Glen, Pete, Mike et al., I watch your videos, you make it look easy.  But you guys are awesome!

Looking forward to becoming like you, perhaps, some day.  For now I humbly sit and ponder whether I will ever get there. I feel safer in my canoe!

André-François