From: Peter Martin <paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 28 Jan 2014 16:19:41 +0000
Subject: Re: First try with my Paradox

Andr…-Fran«ois,

Welcome aboard. You've now joined the exclusive ranks of being a Paradox sailor!

I understand your frustration but don't get despondent. Paradox really is very different to sail from more "conventional" craft.

I think we've all been in a similar situation to yourself, as we're learning how to rig and sail the boat and learn it's idiosyncrasies.

Indeed, looking back at my first major outing you'll note that I had very similar experiences!
http://paradoxbuild-johanna.blogspot.co.uk/2011/09/sea-trials-report.html

There's definitely a knack to using the furling gear. But that knack has to be learned and developed.
If it was traditional Marconi rig, you'd have just as many problem until you learn the techniques that work and avoid the ones that don't.

All I suggest is you get back to the boat and start raising and lowering the sail until you have it dialled.

Get yourself a good pair of tough leather palmed gloves (I use cheap builders gloves). I ended up with multiple blisters on my first few days out with all the rope work involved.

Try to reduce friction everywhere you can in the system, halyard blocks, turnaround blocks, furling axle etc. Make sure the leads are as straight as possible and not binding. It really pays to spend time getting the system tuned to operate freely.

You said you couldn't completely furl the sail. Have you made the mistake of not having enough turns on the drum?

Believe me, I've been there. I now always load the furling drum completely with two full layer of line when rigging. This is because if the sail is not tightly furled on the boom, the first time you reef when there's a lot of pressure/tension in the sail, it furls much tighter requiring more furling line to come off the drum. If/when you run out of line on the drum, no amount of effort known to mankind is going to roll any more sail onto the boom. Keeping the diameter of the drum larger is also more efficient as you get more purchase just when you really need it. A few owners have actually increased the inner drum diameter for this very reason.

Don't give up. I know you feel safer in your canoe but that's because you feel completely in control.
You'll develop that level of control and confidence in your Paradox but it won't happen over night.
There are are a lot of new things to take on.

Best wishes
Pete