From: =?UTF-8?B?RHIgQW5kcsOpwo4tRnJhbsOnwo1vaXMgQm91cmJlYXU=? <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: First try with my Paradox
Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2014 21:19:48 -0600

Hi everyone,

Well I finally figured out what was wrong, why I couldn't furl the sail correctly. Easy. The sail was rolled on the boom backwards. Now I think Sean has done this too, but it's not the direction of furling which is important, but the fact that the thimble which is seized to the swivel rod MUST be lined up with the furling line as it comes off the OUTSIDE of the furling drum. As per plan, the thimble is on port side, thus the sail must be wrapped by hand the first time so that the furling line comes off the drum from the top down to port side. If the wrap and the thimble are on opposite sides, like mine was, the line kinks so much that it is next to impossible to furl. As I found out the hard way. Now I can raise and lower the sail without undue difficulty, even without the topping lift if need be. But the topping lift sure does make it easier. With the topping lift, I feel like I'm pulling maybe 30 lbs, whereas without, it is like lifting 60 lbs. Younger, I would have endured the boat without the topping lift.

Sean, is your thimble on the starboard side of the swivel rod when it is in the upright position? If so it would explain why you can furl your sail with it rolled up backwards, whereas I could not.

Since yesterday I was fully satisfied with my capacity to raise and lower the sail, today I went out for my second try, all day, and enjoyed the sailing in steady 10-15mph winds immensely. What an incredible boat!! What a pleasure to explore all the shallow coves and sail 20 feet from shore! Even fried up some curried shrimp on the gimballed stove (thanks Al for the anchoring from the cockpit tips). It's so neat to have access to the water for cleaning up just by bending over! And the rear deck makes such a great platform to work from. Matt Layden's genius comes through when you notice that the vertically stored yuloh on one side and the stored sail on the other enclose both sides of the deck so that nothing can fall overboard even if the boat rocks.

As for my problem of the lines wrapping around the sail as I furled during my first try, It was simply that I had screwed the bolt on the end of the boom too tight. Although the stainless steel double tang which is fixed there was free to rotate when I tested it on land, when the topping lift pulls up on it, that stainless steel tang becomes slanted, and therefore binds. The solution is to leave a good 1/4 inch, maybe 3/8 inch of slack, and to insert a sloped stainless steel washer to boot. No more problems now.

Also, Sean's advice is very true about being careful when lifting the sail at first until it clears the Y of the topping lift. But also, I had neglected to re-cleat the topping lift line a few inches lower after easing off on it to gain sail shape, with the result that the topping lift lines were dragging in the water and free to blow around and get tangled up. Live and learn.

The only issue I had today was tacking to starboard under very light winds. When the Paradox is moving at a knot or more, no problem. But at slower speeds, I missed a few starboard tacks, easily solved with a couple of easy paddle strokes. I even tried moving my weight forward as I tacked, as per Al's suggestion, but still missed a couple. Mind you, I was beating up a very narrow passageway, where I had to tack every minute or so. Good practice!

Hope I haven't bored you all with my beginner's rant. Perhaps others new to the Paradox will avoid my mistakes.

Now for stronger winds...

Andr=C3=A9-Fran=C3=A7ois