From: =?UTF-8?B?RHIgQW5kcsOpwo4tRnJhbsOnwo1vaXMgQm91cmJlYXU=? <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2014 22:03:49 -0600
Subject: Re: 2 on board ?

I now own the Paradox formerly known as Ironsides, which was built with Iron Sides, hence the name, so that the center bulkhead would not interfere with floor space.  Yes, you can lay two standard Thermarest pads side by side in this boat so that two people can sleep.

But I'm not sure I would want to, and I'm a long time camper (outdoor adventure professor).  The space inside the Paradox is the same as that of a two-person tent, granted.  But I've camped thousands of times in two-person tents, and there is a big difference.  The tent sits on ground, and there is tons of space outside.  So you have outside living space, and you go inside just to sleep.  Actually, at bedtime, only one person goes inside at first, and disposes of the entire space to get undressed and sort out gear etc.  When the second person comes in, the first is already in the sleeping bag, laying still.  The second person now comes in and disposes of the top of the first person's sleeping bag as a space to put his stuff while he gets organized.

In the Paradox, it would be as if two persons tried to get organized to go to sleep in a two person tent at the same time.  Neither would find it fun.  Not that it's impossible, we've done worse in winter storms on mountain trips in small tents, it's just not fun.  Then there's the issue of toilet matters.  In a boat, you can't =C2=ABget out of the tent=C2=BB for that either- awkward.

Finally there's the issue of comfort while under way.  As Al quite rightly suggests, the person not on the seat will be cramped, at best, and not very comfortable.  Not to mention that that person will be in the way each time the driver wants to furl or hoist the sail.  Mike Beebe (are you there Mike?) has a removable top on his Paradox and he told me he can sail it double more easily.

Don't think my wife would enjoy the Paradox much, unless I leave her the commands on a beautiful day and I sit in the dungeon at the front. I'm with Glen on this one. Get a Paradox for sailing solo (90% of the time) and something else for when the family wants to come along (Peep Hen or Siren 17 or such if just for day trips). That's what Sean does too, right Sean?

Hope this helps, but remember, I'm a beginner sailor so my advice should be taken with a grain of salt.

Andr=C3=A9-Fran=C3=A7ois