From: "Glen C. Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: "microcruising" <microcruising@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Foam flotation follow-up
Date: Sat, 6 Oct 2001 17:46:49 -0400

Don,

Your research would be much more meaningful if you went to the consumers (boat builders) instead of the manufactures. Let's not forget that the tobacco manufactures still maintain that cigarette smoking doesn't cause lung cancer. 

In respect to assurance from Jim Watson, I might add that they do not recommend the use of any Douglas fir plywood rated less then "Marine" (page 39 of their boat construction manual). To quote from that page they say:

"Logs have to be soaked before they are cut into veneers, both for rotary or slice cutting. Then the veneers are dried before lay-up into panels. The manufacture of plywood in the U.S. is a mass production business geared to the relatively undemanding standards of the residential and commercial construction industry. For this reason, little care is taken to sort out veneers for individually timed drying so logs may not have been properly soaked before being cut into veneers, with the result that the veneers may be cracked and shattered during the slicing process. The panels graded "Marine" are generally free of these defects, but anything less may not be. We have seen a great deal of construction grade plywood with face veneer cracks extending the entire depth of the veneer. This condition can cause severe checking to occur in a finished surface. For these reasons we cannot recommend the use in a boat of Douglas fir panels of any grade less then "Marine." Although some people have had success with lesser panels, we consider their use a false economy in terms of the overall investment in the boat, together with the potential cost of extra labor hours in finishing Douglas fir."

It can be safely assumed that it was this type ply that your source at WEST was referring to when he assured you their product would protect it. Of particular interest to us is that the surface veneers of the lesser grades are prone to checking. Checking (grain splitting) is the problem I am trying to address here. I think that this is germane because most amateur boat builders use the lesser grades for economy. I myself used "ext A/B" for my Paradox but found the added cost of labor to get a finish to my standards unacceptably high and probably won't use it again for that reason. It will give an acceptable workboat finish with considerably less labor.

It is not my intent to discourage anyone from installing foam floatation, quite to the contrary, I encourage the builders of Paradox, or any other boat, to install floatation and to follow the designers instruction. My intent is solely aimed at alerting builders to "potential" problem areas when using the lesser grades of plywood. I do not want to sound like an alarmist either. There are boats built throughout the world using far less quality materials than our worst construction grade plywood and their builders trust their lives to them fishing every day for a living. Just build your boat and use it. If it is your first you will probably find that it will change your life for the better.

On many occasions I have stated my credentials and experience levels and how I come by my beliefs. I will gladly furnish references to any who desire them. Perhaps you, Don, could extend to me and the other readers of this group the same courtesy and give us a brief of your qualifications.