From: geoffdavis67@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 19 Sep 2014 05:10:49 -0700
Subject: Re: Longer Cruises

Hello Rob,

Ok, I think I've finally recovered from my Yahoo rage...

I was on board for one month without really getting ashore other than a quick walk around the muddy bottom a few times when Small Fry dried out in her anchorage. Other times, when anchored in shallow water I could have waded ashore, but felt a bit nervous on account of the many sharks in the area... only tiny sharks (the biggest not much more than a metre) but who knows, if they were nasty I might have lost a toe.

The longest period of sailing without putting the hook down was 6 days. This was possible because the paradox can be made to sail herself on almost any point of sail with a bit of experimentation and some of that occy strap type cord... and I found down wind she would only self steer if I kept the speed to 4 knots or less.

Anyway, staying sane is not too difficult to achieve. I look after myself, do I feel tired... sleep... am I hungry... eat... am I getting a bit chilly now that the sun has gone down... put more clothes on. It sounds obvious, but actually requires some regular conscious review of one's state... and some discipline to take action when it is needed. Why discipline? Because the most trivial tasks ashore, are always more difficult at sea. Another slightly tricky aspect of looking after myself is to be aware of mood. Being at sea in a paradox is the same as any other life activity in that there are ups and downs in mood, happy sometimes, bored at times, and occasionally a bit blue and wondering what the hell I'm doing in the middle of the ocean in a tiny boat. Changes in mood and emotions are fine and should be expected and managed. When I feel a bit down or less enthusiastic about continuing the adventure, I try to do something to stop myself dwelling on it. Listen to some upbeat music. Maybe try singing (after all there is no-one to hear my woeful efforts). Even just looking around and listing all the good things of the moment, the way the water sparkles, the flight of the storm petrel or albatross or whatever birds are around, the always pleasing view of my boat built by me, etc. I'm always surprised to find how quickly I forget that I was feeling down and how quickly I am once again enjoying sailing. 

I wasn't completely alone. I did have a few encounters with people along the way. In shark bay a number of other boaters came to investigate and wondered if I was ok, and on another occasion when I was well out to sea a large fishing boat deviated from her course to investigate. The skipper told me his first thought was an indonesian fishing vessel straying from its home territory... that made me laugh. I guess small fry doesn't exactly look like a 'normal' boat. As well as talking to actual people, I was able to listen to them on the radio, as in the VHF radio, and also radio of the more entertaining variety... and finally, I was able to keep in touch with the world via mobile whenever I was within range... though I'm in two minds about mobile phones. Having the possibility to communicate makes one feel obliged to stay in touch, and I find I worry about other's worrying if I haven't been able to send a message or make a call for a while. Moitessier said something to this effect, that he at one point started to take risks trying to convey a message to the outside world, simply because he was worried about other's worrying about him... anyway... I'm digressing... the point is just that, in this fascinating modern age of super connectedness it is actually difficult to truely be alone.

Does that answer your question regarding mental health?

Cheers,
Geoff (Small Fry, Fremantle).