From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Cruising on the St-John's
Date: Fri, 13 Mar 2015 17:46:39 -0400

Yes Edward, I actually started on lake Monroe, then went south up river against the current to the end of the large but very shallow lake Jesup, and back to lake Monroe.  Then cruised up through Lake George and on to Palatka, which took all of my time, since I was also exploring the creeks and side lakes along the way.  Plus, I was shuttling my truck and trailer with my folding bike which was on board.  But I suppose this story would be more appropriately posted on the Microcruising group.  

As far as the Paradox is concerned, I am more and more impressed with the boat the more I sail it.  Builders, keep on building, you won't be sorry.  What an incredible non-motorized cruiser.  I crossed huge Lake George in 30 knot winds, poled up shallow creeks with the yuloh, or sculled when it was too deep, and when the wind was ever so slightly present, managed to sail even when the river split into narrow bends.  Great fishing boat too, cause you can stand safely.  The rear deck is unbelievably convenient for washing dishes, filleting fish, taking a sponge bath or drying the anchor without messing up the inside of the boat.  Love it.

Some thoughts for builders.  I really appreciated the extra width in my boat, in which the plywood of the central bulkhead was replaced with steel (see the Ironsides build).  This permits sleeping on the right side of the boat where there is extra length, and also leaves space on the left for my Brompton bike, plus gear, plus free access to the port bilge while laying down.  I also installed a table like in Zoe, works great.  The gimballed stove I found perfect in the specified location, and with a hook up top to suspend a pot, could even cook while sailing.

I installed a Renogy 50 watt flexible solar panel on the hatch, this with a huge marine battery gives plenty of power for electronics.  I used Garmin Blue Charts on my Ipad mini (the GPS model works without internet), and fixed it underneath the port side of the hatch with a Caddie Buddy mount which I can also recommend.  The Ipad doubles as radio, cinema screen, E-reader, camera and phone. I also mounted an old GPS unit I use mostly as a speed indicator (screen has giant numbers) and for backup in case the Ipad dies.  

As an outdoor adventure professional, I really like the Exped down mattress which doubles as a comfortable sofa for reading purposes in the evening.  It fits perfectly in the Paradox space.

As far as heat is concerned, it was down to 45-50 degrees F on most nights and at that temperature the boat is quite comfortable without extra heat.  In the evening I would cook with the hatch cracked open an inch or two and the stove and hot cast iron frying pan would heat up the whole boat.  With the hatch then closed, it would stay warm enough until inside the sleeping bag.  I'm going to experiment with heating up a piece of soapstone for colder nights, but like I said, no problem whatsoever at 45 degrees and up.

Looking forward to spring sailing soon!

André-François