From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Cruising on the St-John's
Date: Wed, 18 Mar 2015 17:23:48 -0400

Hi Chris,

To answer your questions, yes I did buy the boat from Steve Yahn before he passed away. Spent 4 months driving around North America, used "got to go to Washington to pick up my new Paradox" as an excuse for the trip. I first drove from Qu=E9bec to Washington. Nice guy, that Steve, but he was too spent on morphine to help me much with the boat, understandably. The trailer was in very bad shape, in fact as I put the boat in the water, the trailer broke in half. The paradox was holding up the trailer from the ends! Scary to think I drove the highways like that. I found a 3500 lb galvanized trailer in Olympia and modified it, and with no further worries drove down in the snow through Oregon to California, then over to Texas where I spent a couple weeks at lake Amistad fixing things on the boat and learning to use it. I then drove to the gulf and met Mike Beebe, Paradox owner who quickly became a good friend. I learned a great deal from Mike and gained confidence sailing with him for 6 days. Then I started the trip back home, stopping to sail on different lakes in Louisiana, Mississipi, Alabama and Tennessee before I hit snow again and scooted on back home. Last summer I gained more experience sailing on the Saguenay Fjord in Quebec and several local lakes.

I trailered my Paradox to Florida to do the St-John's trip, over 2500 miles each way. No problems. I love trailering the Paradox because you can see past the narrow boat in both rear view mirrors. In fact, you can also see right through the Paradox windows in the main rear view mirror. At the ramp, it is 8 to 12 minutes from arrival to actual sailing. Depends how far you have to walk from the ramp to the parking spot and back.

As far as crossing lake George in 30 knot winds, the Paradox can take it easily. At no time was I even slightly concerned. Mind you I skirted the lee shore most of the way on a beat so although there were powerful wind gusts, the seas were not too high. I'll write another post about a hair rising experience with my Paradox (for me).

I could use my Ipad mini as a radio because I had Internet access through a Roam Mobility device. But I mostly used it to stream media, as you suspected.

Yes, I too am anticipating another great summer of sailing!

Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois