To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: bourbeau@videotron.ca
Date: 18 Mar 2015 16:36:06 -0700
Subject: Roller curler failed (hairy experience) and topping lift

Hi fellow Paradox enthusiasts. Finally have time to write about my roller furler fail from last fall. Hope this helps some of you still building, or those of you using a topping lift. Photos pertaining to this are posted on the «Iota» album. 

If you look on the Ironsides photo album, or the first picture I just posted, you will see the details of Steve Yahn's manufactured swivelled «arm». Steve was a machinist and he thought that this would be an improvement over Matt Layden's simple «rope through the piece of pipe». I acquired Ironsides (now renamed Iota) and unfortunately, I must report that this design failed. I believe that Steve's photos are some of the only ones that show the roller furling arm up close, so I must warn you not to copy it. Here's what happened. 

I was sailing in 20 knot plus winds on the Saguenay fjord in seas of 3-4 feet, running along fine. Then the winds increased to 25, then 30, and seas ran up to 5 feet, maybe more. (The Saguenay here is 2 miles wide with cliffs on both sides and the fetch is over 20 miles.) I had my sail up about 2/3 of the way and decided to reduce it to 1/3. But the roller rope would not budge, no matter how hard I pulled. So I had no other option but to hang on for another 10 miles to the bay up ahead. I was just screeching down those waves, surfing and having to continuously straighten the boat to prevent broaching. At first I was scared, as the boom would sometimes hit the water on one side, then the other. Then the scare became a thrill, as I realized the boat would see me through. The GPS showed over 7 knots, with peaks over 7.5. The Paradox does plane! I was against the tide and against the current. Never would I have sailed at that speed voluntarily, especially since I'm not a very experienced sailor. But the boat did see me through safely, and near the end I was actually enjoying the wild ride, although I did not like the fact that I was alone and on cold water. I was sure glad when I finally coasted into the calmer bay.

When I pulled the boat onto the trailer, I investigated to see why the roller furling was stuck. To my surprise, the 3/8 stainless steel roller mount was bent and wedged against the roller. I believe that the double swivel on Steve's modification also didn't help, causing the furling rope to bend at an angle and contributing to the strain which led to failure. I looked up the plans and noted that Matt Layden's spec was 1/2 inch bronze rod. So I built a new roller mount from 1/2 inch stainless.

There was also a topping lift on this sail when I bought the boat. That's what the metal loop attached onto the curve of the roller mount was for. In this same downwind run, and others before that, I noticed that at the worst possible moment, that is when the sail is furled down halfway, it tends to blow through in between the topping lift ropes. This is a real pain to untangle. I remember Dave Bolduc having asked Matt Layden what he thought of the topping lift. «Don't think that's a good idea» was the reply, if I recall correctly. Now I know why.

I went to a lot of trouble to find the precise thick brass pipe that the design calls for. Had to buy a 12 foot piece. So I now have 11 feet to give away. With this pipe and rope as per design, I have found that I no longer need the topping lift. But to make lowering the sail easier, I now use a «half topping lift», which is just a halyard tied to the curve of the roller mount. This helps hold up the weight of the boom while furling. I am now very happy with the performance of the furler.

Hope this helps. Pictures in the «Iota» album.