From: Jack Gardiner <alex29@cox.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 08 Apr 2015 22:42:23 -0400
Subject: Re: Paradox Sailors Near New York State US?

I am in Rhode Island,

I built my paradox in less than 1 year, built my own sails, with no prior knowledge of the craft. I started building around dec 20th I had my first sail around mid September or so.  I have not had time to sail for quite some time and hopefully I will this season. everybody will build at a different pace, not everybody holds the same skillsets.

Jack
"JillBaby" 

From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders]
Date: 4/8/2015 9:43 PM
Subject: Re: Paradox Sailors Near New York State US?
 

Well, I'm afraid I have to completely disagree with this post (in the nicest possible way, of course - we're all boat builders here).  Firstly, building a Paradox is slow.  It's a complicated build and I haven't yet heard of anyone completing one in less than 18 months - so, if you're impatient for results you will never manage to complete your build, no matter what parts you start with. Secondly, if you do start with the hull, you won't have room to do the other parts if your build space is small. Thirdly, once the hull is done, you will be tempted to take short cuts with the appendages or perhaps never complete them at all, as per below. Finally, building a boat takes time and can be frustrating. Better to use that initial enthusiasm to do the appendages first, which can be fiddly. Then when you finally assemble the hull you know that you're well on your way to completing the build.

And before you say this is a theoretical answer, I've made all my appendages except the sail, the bulkheads are done, the hull sides scarfed and glued and I anticipate doing my dry run assemble of the hull this weekend.  If the weather is fine, I'll lay out all the appendages and take a photo of them, followed by the dry assemble.

Cheers,

Rob.


From: kbgwp@...
Date: 
Subject: Re: Paradox Sailors Near New York State US?
 
I also have both the plans and the build manual but haven't started mine in PA yet either.  I would be tempted to save the mast, booms, and other sailing parts until last since a boat could be used without the sails but the sails couldn't be used without the boat.  Of course I previously built a little Summer Breeze boat that I still didn't complete the sailing parts for and a one-sheet boat of my own design that I only built enough of the sailing bits to try it out.  Had I made those parts first then I'd be done with them now but I did get a fair amount of use out of both boats without the sails.

If you might be impatient enough to test out the Paradox without the sails I'd say build the mast and other parts last and get something that at least starts to look like a boat first.  Just my opinion as a wannabe Paradox builder.  To be honest I'm more likely to build something like the Enigma since my boating would be mostly in a small lake and river and probably never see saltwater.

Brian