From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 9 Apr 2015 03:18:13 +0000 (UTC)
Subject: Re: Paradox Sailors Near New York State US?

Hi everyone, am retired and have built two other small boats, one small open boat and the other a Stevenson's Pocket Cruiser. The Paradox, in comparison, is a complicated build, any boat this good is going to take time.
I work 5 hours a day 5 days a week on mine, so far it's been 7 months, and it's almost ready to paint. In the end, I guess 8 months will see it in the water?
Hope everyone building one is having as much fun as I did.
Nick ( Australia )


From: "creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders]" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Thursday, 9 April 2015, 11:13
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Paradox Sailors Near New York State US?

Well, I'm afraid I have to completely disagree with this post (in the nicest possible way, of course - we're all boat builders here). Firstly, building a Paradox is slow. It's a complicated build and I haven't yet heard of anyone completing one in less than 18 months - so, if you're impatient for results you will never manage to complete your build, no matter what parts you start with. Secondly, if you do start with the hull, you won't have room to do the other parts if your build space is small. Thirdly, once the hull is done, you will be tempted to take shortcuts with the appendages or perhaps never complete them at all, as per below. Finally, building a boat takes time and can be frustrating. Better to use that initial enthusiasm to do the appendages first, which can be fiddly. Then when you finally assemble the hull you know that you're well on your way to completing the build.

And before you say this is a theoretical answer, I've made all my appendages except the sail, the bulkheads are done, the hull sides scarfed and glued and I anticipate doing my dry run assemble of the hull this weekend. If the weather is fine, I'll lay out all the appendages and take a photo of them, followed by the dry assemble.

Cheers,

Rob.