From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradox group <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Electrical budget
Date: Sat, 9 May 2015 17:58:20 +0100

Been looking at Dave's excellent blog : 

https://daveskaife.wordpress.com/2015/05/07/new-solar-panels/

where he discuses fitting extra solar panels and encourages musing about my own electrical situation. 

I'm pretty sure that my 30 watt solar panel won't be able to keep up with the electrical consumption of my new tiller pilot if I have it going too much of the time. The panel is fitted to the cabin roof just in front of the sliding hatch, so gets good light if the hatch is closed but less through the polycarbonate skylight when the hatch is open.

So I may be 'forced' to close the hatch and sit below when I'd rather be sitting in the open air, just to get the maximum possible output from the panel. Not ideal 

It's a possibility to move my existing solar panel from the cabin top to the sliding hatch but then I'd lose the transparent skylight - which I much like and is handy for looking at the trim of the sail and keeping a lookout to leeward when the boat is heeled..Also would need a longer flexible wire to allow for the sliding action of the hatch which I can see would be an additional complication to get damaged and go wrong.

I've considered fitting another solar panel on the foredeck in front of the mast but wonder if it will get too much in the way when lifting the mast in and out and prone to damage from my big feet. Also, the anchor rope runs across there with its associated mud and wet

I've ruled out using the aft deck for a solar panel. It's very useful for putting things on while at anchor- the petrol cans, the anchor bucket and anything else that I want out of the cabin and as a general work space for food prep, hair washing, etc. Also gets walked on when getting aboard from a pontoon.

Looking on the bright side, I've fewer electrical gadgets than Dave. A little netbook computer for use while at anchor and occasional camera and phone battery charging are the only consumers apart from the new tiller pilot. No VHF or nav lights. Anchor light is paraffin/kerosene   powered

I reckon that I'll have to settle for using the tiller pilot for less of the time than I'd like.

Best,
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/