From: delliott@tomah.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 10 Jan 2003 19:08:20 -0600
Subject: Re: buy Paradox plans

Hello,

For your information, I would like to clarify a few things.

1. Paradox plans are only available from Dave Bolduc, who is due to go cruising soon. If you want Paradox's plans, order now or wait a few months till he returns.

2. The 'Building Paradox' series of articles are always available at my email address (Anytime): DElliott@tomah.com, or you can contact me at the Smallboats Yahoo group http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Smallboats/

3. About making a larger Paradox. Paradox width is based on a 4-foot-wide piece of plywood, and it would therefore be difficult to increase the width (unless you have a source for five-foot-wide sheets of ply). How about keeping the width and simply making it longer? That wouldn't work as the displacement distribution changes (Depth, bottom curve). To scale any boat requires a complete and total redesign, meaning an entire new set of calculations. Paradox is designed as a unit and behaves the way it does because of its proportions. 

In addition, the scantlings and interior structure must be revised to accommodate the increased loads produced by a larger boat and sail rig. Once the new design is completed, it should be fully tested by models first, and then full-size, and then modified as necessary to correct any problems that are found before plans are released to builders. 

One can certainly do a larger boat, but it will not be a Paradox. Additionally, that person must know a great deal about boats of this type and what Matt Layden knows, which is doubtful at best.

Cheers,
Don

Original Message:
From: Fred Klitzke 
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Friday, January 10, 2003 2:42 PM
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] buy Paradox plans

My guess is that you need the plans. (I would need very detailed plans). After that the "how to build" would be very helpful. I have yet to discover the plans and understand that Don isn't available at the present time. I admit that I hesitate to commit to the project because of my modest building skills and lack of tools.

Comments???

delliott@tomah.com wrote:

Hello,
 
I do not sell the plans for Paradox, Dave Bolduc does, he is at the Yahoo Mirocruising group.

I do, however, sell a building instruction guide for Paradox.

About the Building Paradox articles:

I have all the Paradox series of articles ready for immediate shipping. There are some fifty pages and 16 articles. The articles cover a detailed description of Paradox along with detailed building instructions. It is in a booklet form and is fully illustrated.

The price of the Paradox series is $8.00 plus $2.00 shipping in the states.

If you live in Canada or overseas, the cost is $8.00 plus $4.00 shipping (USD).

Send your order to Don Elliott, 711 Wisconsin Ave, Box 202, Tomah,
Wisconsin, 54660. Your articles will be sent the same day I receive the order.

Overseas order payments can be safely made with cash; this is done by putting the payment (USA dollars) wrapped in heavy paper and placed in an envelope. This saves the expense of an international money order. I have received payments of this kind from many countries around the world.

Thanks for the interest in the articles. Great boat, none anywhere like it.

Don

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now 

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.