From: Larry Whited <lwhited@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: buy Paradox plans
Date: Fri, 10 Jan 2003 20:08:52 -0800 (PST)

Very well put, Don. I had not thought of all those complicating factors. Perhaps, someday someone will design a larger sharpie with all the safety and seaworthiness we have come to admire in Paradox. For now, Paradox seems hard to beat as a microcruiser. I'm eager to follow Matt's progress in the Watertribe adventure race. This will add new dimensions to the capabilities of Paradox as an all-around microcruising adventure boat.

Larry

Hello,
For your information. I would like to clarify a few things.

1. Paradox plans are only available from Dave Bolduc. He is soon due to go cruising so if you want Paradox's plans order now, or wait a few months till he returns.
2. The 'Building Paradox' series of articles are always available at my email address (Anytime). DElliott@tomah.com or you can contact me at the Smallboats Yahoo group http://groups.yahoo.com/group/Smallboats/
3. About making a larger Paradox. Paradox width is based on a 4 foot wide piece of plywood and it would therefore be difficult to increase the width, (unless you have a source for five foot wide sheets of ply). How about keeping the width and simply making it longer, that wouldn't work as the displacement distribution changes (Depth, bottom curve). To scale any boat requires a complete and total redesign, meaning an entire new set of calculations. Paradox is designed as a unit and behaves the way it does because of it proportions. In addition, the scantlings and interior structure must be revised to accommodate the increased loads produced by a larger boat and sail rig. Also, once the new design is completed it should be fully tested by models first, and then full size and then modified as necessary to correct any problems that are found before plans any released to builders. What do you have when you are done? One can certainly do a larger boat but it will not be a Paradox, in addition, that person must know a great deal about boats of this type and what Matt Layden knows, doubtful at best.

Cheers,
Don

Hello,
I do not sell the plans for Paradox, Dave Bolduc does, he is at the Yahoo Microcruising group,

I do however sell a building instruction guide for Paradox

About the Building Paradox articles

I have all the Paradox series of articles ready for immediate shipping. There are some fifty pages and 16 articles. The articles cover a detailed description of Paradox along with detailed building instructions. It is in booklet form and is fully illustrated.

The price of the Paradox series is $8.00 plus $2.00 shipping in the states.

If you live in Canada or overseas the cost is $8.00 plus $4.00 shipping (USD).

Send your order to Don Elliott, 711 Wisconsin Ave, Box 202, Tomah, Wisconsin, 54660. You articles will be sent the same day I receive the order.

Overseas order payments can be safely made with cash, this is done by putting the payment (USA dollars) wrapped in heavy paper and placed in an envelope, this saves the expense of a international money order, I have received payments of this kind from many countries around the world.
Thanks for the interest in the articles. Great boat, none anywhere like it.

Don

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service.

Do you Yahoo!? Yahoo! Mail Plus - Powerful. Affordable. Sign up now