From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Simpler Paradox alternative
Date: Sat, 25 Jul 2015 07:44:29 -0400


Hi Brian and all,

I too looked at and considered the Ocean Explorer before building Gorfnik. After drooling over John Nabor's Tenacious Turtle of Texas 200 fame, I wasted many sheets of plywood trying to design a forward cabin which would also permit sleeping on a PD racer hull. Finally I was inspired and much influenced by Scott Widmier’s (much better sailor than I'll ever be) Everglades Challenge Puddle Duck and by my own Paradox. Like Scott, I decided a rear cabin was the only sensible way to make an 8 foot boat liveable. 

Scott used a 16 inch high Puddle Duck for his boat, but complained about knees being cramped while sleeping. So after some cardboard box mock ups to test this, I made Gorfnik with an 18 inch high base, which turned out perfect. It also reduced cabin height by 2 inches, permitting a better (less steep for wind flow) angle on the forward window, since total height is forced by sitting-up-headroom-necessity while riding from inside. There are a lot of details that make Gorfnik functional, I spent way more time scratching my head than building. The angle and placement of the forward window was especially crucial for bringing knees up to chest while in sleeping position and accessing the forward space without undue contortions. Balancing the boat wasn't easy either, because the reefed and unreeled sail changes the center of effort. And the folding hatch was the cause of many nightmares before I succeeded in making it waterproof.

I copied Scott and made my two side flotation boxes 8 inches wide. This leaves a 32 inch wide cockpit, which is just right, about the same as on the Paradox. Theoretically the flotation chambers will permit the boat cockpit to be above water if the boat is on its side, but I haven't test flipped it yet; been waiting for warmer water here in northern Quebec. Maybe this week.

As for performance, I'm happy to report that it will go to weather quite nicely in 15 knot winds with two foot waves and I'm sure it can take more. It really is a lot of fun! Will report when I get brave enough to test it further. 

I will post my build sequence and details with photos in the next couple of weeks, but you will have to be patient, cause I'd rather go sailing than type on this computer!

Kind regards,

André-François