From: bourbeau@videotron.ca
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Gorfnik build Step 4
Date: 26 Jul 2015 22:42:55 -0700


Putting the hull together is straightforward and a standard PD Racer procedure. Note that I put the two ends outside the side pieces, so the boat is actually 8 feet and 1/2 inch long. The deck will sit 1/4 inch short on each end, which will later be filled with an epoxy fillet. The bottom is 3/8 inch plywood, whereas the sides were 1/4 inch. I used stainless steel screws every 6 inches and glued with PL Premium, which is a lot easier to manipulate than epoxy.

The framing is 1 1/2 inch by 3/4 inch spruce at deck level and 3/4 by 3/4 inch ash at the bottom so it follows the bend more easily.


Since I had leftover oak hardwood floor boards, I used that to make the deck supports. Probably overkill, but I do walk on the front deck a lot, mostly to go reef the sail and to get off the boat when it is beached.


Notes:

1. The deck supports are 1 1/2 inch by 3/4 inch except the front one which is 3 inches wide, since it will be drilled to act as mast support. This front one is centred at 12 inches from the front edge of the boat (the mast center is also at 12 inches). The front edge of the rear support is 12 inches from the rear edge of the boat; it butts up against the rear cabin posts.

2. The center deck support is beveled at the rear to 40 degrees to butt up to the slanting forward deck posts. It's rear slanted edge therefore sits at 42 inches from the front of the boat.

3. The front lower transverse framing is a 1 1/2 inch thick double beveled hardwood (ash) so the stainless steel anchoring bolt can go through it. The double bevel follows the front and bottom slopes, which permits the anchoring bolt to be placed horizontally and tightened against a flat surface. The anchoring bolt also goes through a similar triangularly beveled piece of hardwood (8 inches long) which is epoxied to the outside center of the boat.

4. I added a 3/4 by 3/4 inch by 12 inch piece of hardwood to each corner so I could later solidly screw in 4 large handles. 

Photos in the Gorfnik album.

André-François