From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox tacking difficulties
Date: Wed, 5 Aug 2015 14:44:06 +0100


Hi Bob

It's an interesting that theory of yours that the immersed forefoot is the main culprit. Any internet references that you could  point at to further explain the physics?

Yes, it's all about trade offs  ..The shallow water capabilities are so useful , especially  when finding a nice sheltered spot to spend the night , that some other shortcomings e are outweighed for me..

If you anchor in an exposed position when the wind gets up you will get some pounding and yawing about.  The trick is to find a cosy little creek, too shallow or small for all the bigger boats to get into. This is the Paradox advantage

I recently spent 4 days at anchor in the Newtown River, Isle of Wight, waiting for  30 and 40 mph winds  to blow through and for a favourable wind slant for me to travel further west. There was quite a little chop in the wide part of the river where I'd initially chosen to anchor. I made a move to a little inlet.when a temporary lull came to get a quieter anchorage.

But must admit to felling envious watching a little junk rigged Corribee make short tacks of about 5 or 10 seconds each to beat out of the narrow part of the river in a force 6. A  Paradox can't do that so easily..
. 

Best
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Paradox tacking difficulties
From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Tuesday, 4 August, 2015, 21:53
 
I suspect the tacking difficulties you (we, when Mini is
eventually finished) can mainly be attributed to Paradox's submerged forefoot. I know that Phil Bolger was insistent that sharpies needed to have their forefoot above the water to enable them to tack and I remember once I had a friend stand on the bow of my Philsboat and when he submerged it's forefoot we just kept going in a straight line!

But there are trade-offs to everything. There's been frequent mentions on this group about how Paradox can maintain course for minutes at a time - I bet if it's forefoot was above the water that wouldn't be happening and one thing that I'm really looking forward to is no more pounding, particularly when at anchor. I'm also hoping to find that sailing at anchor isn't an issue, particularly if lying to a sea anchor.

In addition to keeping way on and not trying to turn too quickly perhaps keeping your body on the outside of the curve rather than the inside might help when tacking. That will make the boat heel a lot more - I think they refer to it as roll tacking, but then again Paradox's hard chines and narrow hull might cancel out those kind of weight shifts.

Perhaps I'll just have to accept that in rough water, tacking isn't an option.

Cheers,

Rob.