From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox tacking difficulties
Date: 06 Aug 2015 00:56:39 -0700


Hi Jim,

I'm afraid there's nothing I can point you to for that. I just remember reading somewhere about Phil Bolger's ideas and also Chris Morejohn's Hogfish designs. Ross Lillistone also has interesting things to say about sharpies.

In short, here is what I think about Paradox. The chine runners are really about vortex inhibition. This enables Paradox to sail faster than people expect and to hold a stable course. This can be seen if you make a paper dart and throw it. Then add winglets and see what happens. The dart is much more stable, flies in a straight line and flies faster.

The submerged forefoot impedes tacking in a sharpie because it prevents the boat from rotating around the centre of lateral resistance during the tack. That's because flat bottom boats, slide around over the top of the water to change direction rather than moving through the water as a keel boat does. On the other hand the submerged forefoot acts like a front rudder which hasn't been disturbed by the hull, which is why Paradox's are renowned for holding course.

The general consensus is that having a submerged forefoot in a sharpie is bad, because when running downwind the boat will tend to corkscrew around the "front rudder", instead of behaving like a surfboard. But check out the boarding step on the rudder cheek. It is an upside down foil, which keeps the stern submerged when running downwind. The chine runners also help keep course stability downwind as per my paragraph above regarding vortex inhibition, although I suspect the main reason Paradox is stable downwind is because it is so heavy and is reasonably narrow for it's length.

These are some of my ruminations about Paradox. I'm not a nautical architect... I don't pretend to know a great deal about boat design... no doubt there will be some in this group who know a lot more about boat design than I do, but what I do notice as I'm building the boat is there are lots of things about the design that are synchronous and I'm constantly surprised how things fit together.

Matt Layden sailed many many miles in the original Paradox and others are doing long trips too, including yourself, and that's enough for me. If the boat didn't work, people wouldn't be having the kinds of adventures we keep hearing about.

Cheers,

Rob.