From: mbolduc@triad.rr.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 10 Aug 2015 17:27:15 -0700
Subject: Re: Paradox tacking difficulties

I've sailed four of Matt Layden's boats which includes Paradox, Little Cruiser, Enigma 360 and Swamp Thing. I honestly can't say one is necessarily better then the other since each is a bit different. 

Seaworthiness
----------------------
Paradox is the most seaworthy of all of these designs. If I was going to be caught in an especially awful storm offshore that's the boat I would want to be in.  Next in terms of survivability would be LC, then Enigma and finally Swamp Thing.

Tacking ability
-----------------------
As for their ability to tack quickly, Paradox is the slowest; next comes LC and finally Enigma and Swamp Thing are the quickest.  If staying on a course without touching the helm is what you need then Paradox wins hands down. Enigma and Swamp Thing are pretty good too but  LC needs a lot more constant attention. Matt suggested improving LC with chine runners, and you would then have the best of both worlds. Chris Morejohn did just that with his two Hogfish designs (the newest has a dagger board), and he has been happy. But with a microcruiser, interior space is at a premium, and it may not be worth it so I'm sticking with the chine runners only for now. 

Windward performance
-------------------------------
As for windward performance I would have to say that Enigma might be the best amongst the lot, which is probably due to her lower overall deck profile and an especially well made sail. Of course this is just my feeling. Matt probably would disagree. Nonetheless, I just love sailing that little boat to weather.

Sailing downwind
--------------------------
Now for sailing down wind I've found that roller furling sails without a boom vang like you have on Paradox, Enigma and Swamp Thing are harder to manage, especially in heavy winds. Under these more severe conditions, I've noticed the boom tends to lift up in gusts which causes the boat to roll excessively. This never happens on LC because her balanced lug sail has a  vang. However there is no way to attach a permanent vang to Matt's roller furling boom design at present. Therefore, on my trip to the Bahamas aboard Enigma, I added a temporary vang whenever it was blowing hard downwind. For those interested, this vang consisted of a short piece of PVC tube which was split and slipped over the end of the boom and sail. A line was then tied to the tube and attach to the deck. I found that this remedy worked pretty well and reduced the rolling significantly. 

Comfort
--------------
Finally in terms of comfort, Paradox and LC are the best. Their cabins are more comfortable year round due to the insulation, and they have ample space and storage for almost everything you will need.  Enigma and Swamp Thing are definitely more cramped as you would expect, but I do enjoy sailing them closer to shore with their 6-7 inch draft.