From: mbolduc@triad.rr.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox tacking difficulties
Date: 11 Aug 2015 07:27:42 -0700

You indeed may have a point that LC's bow centerboard makes tacking a little more challenging at times. It's been awhile since I cruised in her, but in strong winds we used to pull it up completely as we pass through the eye of the wind to help the bow blow over to the other tack. However, most of the time the boat handled just fine. Believe it or not, when we were sailing offshore in breezy down wind conditions, we often put the bow board down, which made the boat track straight as an arrow in the big following seas. The other nice thing about the bow board is that it locks the bow in one place when sculling.

By the way, I've uploaded some more pictures of the "vang hoop" into the Dave's Sharpie Stuff album. It is made from a 3" PVC pipe, and it measures 4" long. The finished slot gap is 1/4", but you will see from the photos that it is padded with white plastazote foam to prevent chafing to the sail. The other important detail to note is that there are different port and starboard attachment points. Unlike my other projects, it is a little rough looking because it was just a prototype at the time, and I wasn't sure if it would even work. However, after using this contraption in both the 300 mile Everglades Challenge and on my trip to the Bahamas, I'm pleased with its performance overall. One unexpected surprise I discovered was that you can furl the sail within the "vang hoop" if you are careful.

Right now the main shortcomings of the design is that it is a bit of a pain to slide on while under ways because you are usually doing the task in brisk winds and it's hard to reach the end of a long overhanging boom. Therefore, you do have to be careful not too fall overboard while slipping the hoop on! The other thing to note is that it can slide out of position over time, and I added a small string to it that is tied to the aft end of the boom to prevent it from sliding forward. You can see the small drill hole in the hoop for this purpose. Lastly, I secured the hoop with a rope to either the mast or one of the deck cleats that are located amidship. I think the deck attachment works best, but you do have to move it back and forth with each jibe.