From: mbolduc@triad.rr.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: ballast
Date: 23 Aug 2015 08:02:27 -0700

Yes, this sounds about right. When it comes to ballast in these kinds of boats, more is usually better than less. Another thing to consider is where you place all that weight. Obviously, the heaviest items will go closest to the bottom while lighter things like clothes can be placed higher up in nets. In addition, try to keep the heavy items centralized in the middle of the sharpie while lighter gear like fenders seem to go best in the bow or in the stern. Another thing you can consider is moving some ballast around while underway. When I'm making a long passage to windward, I shift things like water jugs and fuel to windward and I sit farther forward in the cabin. This allows me to carry more sail longer and the boat tends to point higher with the bow buried. When sailing off the wind I sit all the way back. 

One last thing I'd like to say is that I don't always like using the built in water tanks when taking a long cruise to unknown parts. The problem I have had with using tanks is that if you top them off with some bad water along the way, you contaminate the whole batch which then becomes undrinkable. This has happened to us before in the Bahamas when we thought we were getting R.O. water at a marina, but instead got something else that was contaminated with diesel. Another thing is that when you are away from civilization for a long period of time your water tanks can get very very low, and then you lose a significant amount of you ballast. Therefore, I usually prefer to employ lots of small water jugs, which are stored in the water tank and where any potential leaks will be contained. Usually I start off the trip with a couple cases of spring water. When we drink through the bottles, they are either tossed into the bow for added floatation or refilled locally from our 2.5 gallon collapsible water jug. If there is no water available to refill our bottles, the empty space left behind from them can be filled with more ballast in the form of bags of sand, jars of shells or colorful stones.