From: okiebobby@ymail.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Dry Fit
Date: 25 Aug 2015 21:46:13 -0700


Learned a few things while dry fitting the side panels to the bulkheads.

I originally started to do this on my own. Fortunately my neighbor (also a woodworking enthusiast) paid a visit, and got put to work. Two people can do this way way easier than one.

Since seeing things go 3D, I've been on cloud nine. Don't tell my wife or daughter this, but it has a very similar feel to fatherhood. It's plywood. How is that possible?

Truing up the boat takes a little thought, but has been very enjoyable. I'm probably still feeling the 3D euphoria noted above. After playing around a little, my rookie take on this is that it is just simple pulling and pushing.

Compare diagonal distances (e.g. Distance from the port corner of the transom to where bulkhead #2 meets the starboard side; vs the starboard corner of the transom to where bulkhead #2 meets the port side). Whichever of those two measurements is the longest, is where pulling needs to be done until they are equal. I basically trued the aft half of the boat, and the forward half of the boat as two separate tasks focusing on the horizontal plane. The third task is fitting the stem. It requires attention to both the horizontal and vertical planes, but is still basically the same technique, just more challenging.

I also learned that C-clamps can be used as a bottle opener, when one is too lazy to walk twenty steps. Past building projects (like cribs, bikes, toys, BBQs, patio furniture, etc) have taught me that alcohol is essential for lubricating the brain to wrap my head around a project of this magnitude. Newcastle beer served as the perfect neuro-lubricant today. I need to improve my technique with the C-clamps though, since some of the valuable lubricant was spilled.

All in all, I lucked out. As others have noted, "DON'T JACK WITH THE PLANS." Well I'm building to 85% of scale, and that requires a bit of revision; in order to have sleeping space. So I've moved bulkheads fore and aft. I've been very nervous that things might not fit. Huge relief that they have, and the actual 3D lines look so much better than the 3D CAD views in Sketchup. Matt is a freaking genius.