From: kbgwp@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Gorfnik #2 build started
Date: 26 Aug 2015 11:49:20 -0700

Today, August 26, 2015, I made the first cut on the plywood to build my own copy of Gorfnik the ParaDuck.

I posted 3 new pictures to the Gorfnik album. The first one shows laying out the sides. You can see the small nails I lightly pounded into the plywood and the thin batten board I bent around those nails to get the shape of the bottom.

Next I cut that side out and used it to trace the shape on the other edge of the plywood. I'll cut 2 more using the same pattern piece from a second sheet of plywood to get all 4 side pieces.

The third picture, named center of sides, shows the center section which was 18" according to the drawing. You can see that the section between the two 18" marks curves past the marks making the widest (deepest) part a little over 18". Otherwise there would have been a flat section which the bottom probably wouldn't have fit exact.

Had I cut 18" strips of the plywood, I would have had to make adjustments to avoid a flat spot.

I didn't get the curve cut exact and will clamp all the sides together and finish shaping them all together.

NO, I did NOT use marine grade plywood. I used very cheap plywood which is very likely a mistake but I hope to prove out the plans and hopefully get a little use out of the boat before it self destructs. I am pretty sure I will like the boat but don't want to (and can't) spend the money on marine grade wood at least until I know I don't hate being INSIDE a tiny boat.

Even built out of cheap wood it should still let me get all the pictures I need to complete the plans I have been working on and I expect to find things that I would have missed only looking at CAD drawings. Besides, it is still basically a Puddle Duck. If I was going to spend thousands of dollars I'd rather have a real Paradox.

I'm still waiting on a couple details about the original boat but had enough to get me started.

Brian