From: kbgwp@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 26 Aug 2015 16:15:55 -0700
Subject: Re: Gorfnik #2 build started


Thanks Eerik,

The router idea would work great for this since you need 4 identical sides. I don't have the right bit so just used a jigsaw. The 1/4" plywood cut pretty quick but I will have a little sanding to do. Shouldn't be a problem since I have an orbital disc sander and some good sandpaper. I will add that tip to the PDF plans I am making up though.

My plywood is VERY cheap so I am considering this build as more of a test and don't expect long life. I did a boil test with a scrap of the plywood and was, with a little effort and some damage, able to separate one of the layers. This is interior rated plywood but at only $14/sheet I thought I'd try it. I'm building this mainly to prove out my plans and hopefully get a little use out of it. I will get a little better quality plywood for the bottom though. If this boat turns out like I hope it will, I will probably build a better one but don't want to spend a lot of money without knowing how I am going to like being INSIDE this plywood box.

My last 2 homemade boats used a slightly better (or at least more expensive) underlayment plywood but the outer layer on it is paper thin so not the best choice for boat building either. This cheaper plywood still only has 3 layers but they are all the same thickness. The exterior plywood available locally had way more visible voids than I wanted so I expect the inside also had voids.

Your monoethylene glycol comment was something I hadn't heard before. I did hear of automotive antifreeze being used to protect the wood but never heard about increasing epoxy bond. This boat will almost certainly NOT get any epoxy at all but maybe a little fiberglass and polyester resin on the edges if it looks like it is worth doing.

I really just wanted to be able to get lots of pictures to better explain the plans for this boat so the cheap plywood should work fine. If I can get a season's use out of it, all the better. My normal boating areas are small rivers, ponds, and a fairly small lake. Basically no current and the only waves are from other boats so I'm not worried about drowning if the boat fails while on the water. I wouldn't and DON'T recommend using these cheap materials but then again, I wouldn't be surprised if I get a couple years or more out of this build.

Brian