From: bourbeau@videotron.ca
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Gorfnik build Step 11
Date: 27 Aug 2015 20:02:20 -0700

(Sorry for the delay again, was away on vacation)

I posted some new pictures of the seat notch and backrest in the Gorfnik album which I think will clarify previous information. Also added pictures of the steering mechanism.

The tiller is glued and screwed to a solid piece of wood (rudder support) onto which is also glued and screwed a swim step. I have found the swim step to be essential to get back onto the boat from the water. The mainsheet is passed through a pulley which is positioned exactly above the rudder support swivel. The swivel consists of two 3/4 inch eye bolts and two 3/4 inch eye screws through which is inserted a 3/4 inch pipe. I used plain steel for this pipe, but will be switching it to stainless steel at the end of the season since it's already rusting.

Steering is accomplished like on the Paradox with lines which run around the cabin, through two pulleys fixed on cabin uprights under the front window and through two pulleys at the rear above the deck placed so the angled line matches the path of the tiller, and which are then attached to the drilled end of the tiller. These pulleys are fastened to wooden battens to raise the lines to the correct height for steering from inside the boat. The lines run through short brass tubes epoxied in place.

Here are the dimensions:

Steering board which holds the rudder: 15 X 1 1/4 X 8 inches

Tiller: 20 1/2 X 1 1/4 X 1 1/4 inches

Swim step: 4 X 8 X 1 1/4 inches, foil shaped in cross section, with rounded front.

Main sheet cleat: centred 15 inches from rear of cabin

Main sheet through point: 2 inches from starboard cabin side, 5 1/2 inches above deck.

Steering line through points: 2 inches from cabin sides, 3 inches above deck

Wood battens to hold pulleys and yuloh pivot: 1 inch wide X 1 3/4 inches high, port 11 3/4 inches long, starboard 22 inches long.

Eyebolts: 2 inches and 12 inches from bottom of steering board.

Andre-Francois Bourbeau
Saguenay, Quebec, Canada