From: Peter Martin <paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 5 Sep 2015 23:30:59 +0100
Subject: Re: Gorfnik #2 build started

All this Gorfnik stuff is very interesting (I'm sure to some people), and whilst thread drift is inevitable,  I fear it's already taken over too much bandwidth on this group!

The links to Paradox are anything but tenuous.

The group description is: A meeting place for the exchange of information relative to the building, owning, maintaining, and sailing of Matt Laydens 14 ft sharpie "PARADOX". I don't see how any of this discussion fits in with that description.

The perfect home for the discussion is in the microcruisers group, where of course it's already posted.

I'm terribly aware that newcomers, arriving at the Paradox group page, are now confronted with lots of detail about a strange PDR type boat that has no resemblance to the boat they are researching. I think this group should be kept for the purpose for which it was created (above).

I don't have any issues with Gorfnik per se, in fact the best thing to do would be to create a unique group for its builders and followers, not hijack an existing one.

I'll not make any further postings on the subject, but that is my opinion. YMMV!

Cheers
Pete

On Sat, Sep 5, 2015 at 5:40 PM, kbgwp@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] < paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:


I finished gluing the strips and supports on the 2 outer sides and moved on to the inner sides.

New photo in the Gorfnik#2 album showing the inner port side strips and braces.  I used poplar strips instead of the plywood for most of the parts because I had them and figured they would give the screws more to hold onto.  The 10" square for the access port was a piece of leftover plywood.

I used a combination of clamps and bricks to hold the parts while the glue dries.  I used stacks of my homemade PVC clamps to support the underside of the side so the bricks wouldn't just bend the plywood.

I installed the other strip for the storage divider directly on the inner side instead of assembling the divider on the outer side like the original Gorfnik showed.  I wasn't sure I could get it lined up and clamped in the right spot if I didn't attach the strip first.  I'll probably use an air brad nailer to attach the plywood pieces to those strips (and the other ones) to hold them in place while the glue dries.

Next step, after the second inner side has the strips and braces installed, will be to cut the notches for the deck supports.

I will admit, seeing all 4 side pieces cut out and laying there, I was tempted to just build two narrow boats.  Was just a thought.  I already started ordering some of the bits and pieces needed to finish this boat like small stainless steel pulleys and a nylon clam cleat for the mainsheet.  I haven't found a cheap source for the windows yet.

Brian