From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: cruise write-up
Date: Thu, 10 Sep 2015 21:54:20 +0100

It will be nice to see your boat finished Rob. Are there any other Paradoxes in NZ for you to have a gander at - just for inspiration.

I reckon that it's a brave man who sets out on a big project building a Paradox, having never seen one before.

That's exactly what Alastair did here, as his was the very first one anywhere in Europe as far as I know.

Best
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

On Thu, 10/9/15, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: cruise write-up
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, 10 September, 2015, 21:33

The reason Jim was launching onto the slipway, rather than into the water, is because the water had gone away. The bottom of the slipway led to acres of mud, nearly half a mile to navigable water. No-one else would be using the slipway, certainly no powerboater, until the water returned, by which time Jim would be disappearing over the horizon.

Ahhh, of course, in the southern UK you get huge tidal ranges don't you? Forgot about that. On the eastern side of southern NZ we have small tides - 3 to 4 feet is typical, so people are launching boats regardless of the tide. Also the slipways I'm referring are located in marinas and deep harbours, so I don't think dry launching would work here. We have a few estuary slipways, but they are used by dinghy sailors, so they too would want to launch while my Paradox is waiting to float. The only case where I could see this working would be Jim's example of floating off at night. But... our estuaries are small and they have dangerous bars to get over into the sea. No, in NZ the kind of sailing I'll be doing will be in deep harbours, sounds and fiords, open water or large alpine lakes. Quite different from what you have in the UK. Hopefully, over the next couple of years you will get to see what I mean when Mini is completed.

Fitting the sheer clamps right now.

Cheers,

Rob.