From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Charcoal Heater
Date: Thu, 29 Oct 2015 17:32:30 +0000

Brian said:

"I'm still in the design stage of this crazy idea but plan to have a double wall pipe to get the tiny flue outside the boat without (hopefully) burning, or even charring, the wood around it."

Double wall flue pipe.

On days when there is no wind, the draught through the stove is created by convection, due to the temperature of the gasses in the flue being greater than temperature of the surrounding air. Having double walls would help maintain the temperature difference then.

On no wind days, it can sometimes be necessary to warm the flue first, to get the convection going. Not sure how you'd do that if the pipe was double wall. Also I like to warm my hands on the warm flue pipe..

If there is any wind at all, the draught takes care of itself.

Best, 
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

From: kbgwp@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> 
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Charcoal Heater 
Date: Thu, 29 Oct 2015 13:36

Sometimes I forget that not everyone understands the dangers of homemade stuff. I have heated with wood and coal for most of my life both with "real" furnaces and also homemade wood burners. I also have heated using an unvented kerosene heater. I loved the steady heat and the nice glow but the smell and fumes could get pretty bad.

My tiny boat could easily be heated with a camp stove (including a homemade alcohol stove which I did try) but I want the chimney to get the carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, excess humidity, and any smoke or smell out of the cabin. 

I also have an always open, screened window to provide plenty of ventilation.

The risk of fire, especially on a wooden boat, is always a concern. I'm still in the design stage of this crazy idea but plan to have a double wall pipe to get the tiny flue outside the boat without (hopefully) burning, or even charring, the wood around it. I have no intention of burning the heater for long periods of time or while sleeping or not there to watch it constantly. It should quickly warm the tiny cabin to a comfortable temperature and then I expect the blankets or sleeping bag to keep me warm enough through the night.

With all that said, I fully expect to get burnt on this heater at least a time or two. I'll probably fill the cabin with smoke and maybe even damage the boat or its contents (including myself).

Very little in this world is entirely safe and everyone has to make their own decisions on the risks they are willing to take. Don't blame me (or Jim) if you try this and something bad happens.

Brian