From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Charcoal Heater
Date: Thu, 29 Oct 2015 21:48:01 +0000

Hello Brian

Interesting pictures. Thanks for the link.

I've just cottoned on that your build isn't a Paradox. (I'm a bit slow)

Don't you think that having your stove pipe fixed just there is asking for it get snagged on a mooring rope? Or have I misunderstood the picture?

Best
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

--------------------------------------------
From: kbgwp@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Charcoal Heater
Date: Thu, 29 Oct 2015 20:55

All good ideas. I did think about (and still am) a vented oil lamp. For my little cabin I think that would be plenty of heat and less mess with the added benefit of light.

I took a couple pictures and posted them to my Flickr KinFrog Album.

First is an inside picture showing my idea of the double pipe. There is a bent pipe that goes through the side of my cabin. A smaller flue pipe would then fit inside the larger pipe to keep it from directly touching the wood side. The tin can "burner" is NOT what I intend to use but I included it in the picture anyway. Depending on what I build it may be about that location or might sit on the floor. I do want it removable since much of the season it shouldn't be needed. I'll probably find or make some kind of plug or cap to close the outside pipe to keep any water from getting in when it isn't being used. 

The outside pipe looks a lot like a fishing pole holder. Not sure if it is high enough to act as a chimney without letting the smoke back inside. If I find flexible pipe like Jim used it might be able to be pushed through and extended higher when used or a removable extension might be fitted to the outside pipe. Like I said, I'm still designing it as I go.

Just noticed Jim's latest message and picture while I was typing this one. I'll give the vented lantern idea a lot more thought. Being able to pick up a few bits of wood to heat the boat would be nice but then so would light AND heat. 

By the way, every picture I see of the inside of the Paradox makes me want one even more. Someday maybe I will build one if my little box shaped boat isn't enough for my needs and wants.

Somewhere on Jim's blog I remember reading about him sitting in his Paradox dreaming while on dry land. Glad to know I'm not the only one who does that.

Brian