From: kbgwp@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 03 Nov 2015 16:20:11 -0800
Subject: Copper Pipe Solid Fuel Heater

I got some 2 inch copper pipe, a 2 inch copper end cap, and a 2" to 1" copper reducer at the hardware store. Not real cheap but hopefully this little heater is worth it.

What I did was cut a couple 2" long rings from the copper pipe to serve as doors. I just cut a slice in it and pried it open until the ring would slide down the same diameter pipe. I then folded up the two open cuts to widen the opening and act as handles for easier adjusting. I should have either made longer folds or cut a little section out of the ring instead of just a slit because my first attempt at bending it didn't leave a wide enough gap to fully expose the entire door.

The main part of the tube has the end cap and reducer fitting pressed on and 1"x2" openings cut for the feed doorway and ash/air draft doorway.

Here is a picture of the parts I used after being cut out.

copper wood burner parts https://flic.kr/p/AD2bsy

Here it is assembled. I didn't make the second adjusting ring yet. I didn't want to mess both rings up until I get it figured out and wasn't even sure the 2" pipe would open wide enough to go over the same size pipe. Turns out it DOES WORK so no need to buy even larger pipe to make the parts from.

copper wood burner assembled https://flic.kr/p/AoHnmm

With a candle inside it did get warm enough to act as a nice hand warmer but probably wouldn't throw much heat to actually warm the cabin especially with a chimney hooked up wasting most of the heat. I only tested this for a short time so if burnt for longer times it might actually heat to a point.

What it did do that could be worth doing was provide a nice light and a little bonus heat while exhausting the small amount of toxic gases.

copper wood burner with candle https://flic.kr/p/AD2h93

My first real test burn was done with some wood shavings and a few scraps of plywood. It was a quick test and I dumped it out and poured water over everything before it was fully burnt. This did actually get too hot to touch pretty fast. There was a little smoke out the top chimney when it first started and a little more as it burnt out. I didn't have charcoal or the time to test it but I think it will probably burn cleaner than the plywood scraps. This thing just might really work good...

copper wood burner first test burn https://flic.kr/p/AFa9Br

Placing it inside my little boat, I had a couple possible choices for a mounting location.

copper wood burner possible location1 https://flic.kr/p/zJrg7F

Or, it could be a little higher off the floor. I'll have to play around with it a little but maybe a small pedestal could be built in to hold it in place and the space under the heater might have storage for fuel or maybe be the electric switch panel. Haven't gotten that far yet.

copper wood burner possible location2 https://flic.kr/p/AGj6X4

I hated spending the money for the expensive copper pipe and fittings and would have tried using tin cans or steel tubing instead if I would have had oxygen and acetylene for my torches but the copper should last much longer and looks nice too.

THANKS JIM for the inspiration to try adding heat to a tiny micro cruiser.

I still need to find the right pan or other metal container to keep any ashes or burning coals from falling out and possibly catching the boat or contents on fire. The whole pipe including the bottom got hot from just a couple minuets of burning so it will need something to keep it from burning the floor or platform where it sits. A bit more work to do on mine but I thought I'd let others here know my results in case they are considering this idea now that (In the USA) it is getting colder and colder especially at night. This tiny contraption could extend your boating season a little longer.

Stay safe and use at your own risk...I gotta find a place to mount a fire extinguisher inside my little boat now. Not that that wouldn't have been a good idea anyway.

Brian