From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Copper Pipe Solid Fuel Heater
Date: Thu, 05 Nov 2015 11:14:37 -0500


Hi Brian,

Looks like you're having fun.  I have a LOT of experience winter camping with wall tents.  I can give you two suggestions which you might consider.  First, the chimney must extend above the cabin top for draft to work correctly.  Second, you must install a metal ring where the stove pipe crosses the boat side.  Otherwise it will burn up. (This metal ring is called a "plate", because old timers used to use pierce the center of a metal eating plate for this purpose.)

I am still sailing Gorfnik as well as my Paradox while ice is starting to form on the lakes.  In the Paradox, I use a propane heater, but only the kind which turns off automatically if the air becomes stale.  This safety feature is priceless, it can save your life.  The one I have also turns off automatically if ever it tips over: http://www.walmart.com/ip/Mr.-Heater-Portable-Buddy-Radiant-Heater/16622306

I feel Gorfnik is too small for this heater.  Even on the Paradox, I have to leave the hatch opened to regulate the heat.  In Gorfnik, I use the old trick we used when winter camping in unheated snow tents:  a simple candle lantern hung from the ceiling.  A review which mirrors my own experience here: http://preparednessadvice.com/survival/a-review-of-the-uco-candle-lantern/#.Vjt6v6brVUQ

While the candle lantern does not provide much heat, once stopped and with the hatch on, it does cut down the humidity a fair deal and keeps the small cabins of the Gorfnik and of the Paradox comfortable, while providing light.  Other tricks I use to stay warm while sailing: 1) fill my Nalgene bottle with boiling water and place it at my feet 2) wear mountaineering down booties 3) shove a pair of toe warmers inside my shoes, stuck on top of my feet 4) wear a sheepskin fur hat 5) wear layers of wool clothing  6) get a large nylon wind shell (must be breathable) and wear it over the life vest.

Looks like your copper heater might work as a large homemade candle lantern.  With fire, I suspect you will find it too hot and unmanageable in Gorfnik's small cabin, but it might be useful on the Paradox.  Nothing wrong with experimenting!

In all cases, I would never go to sleep with any type of combustion device lit.  Ever.  Once in the sleeping bag, no problem.

Looking forward to your first experience with Kinfrog on the water. Winter is just around the corner here. Over a foot of snow already!

André-François