From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 17 Nov 2015 09:32:41 +1030
Subject: Re: ballast

Hi,

I have a water tank made from plastic, custom made by a specialist. It was overfilled, by me, prior to my maiden voyage yesterday. When I saw water in the bilges 3 miles off shore, I wondered a lot. A quick taste test showed it was not sea water leaking in, just water sloshing about from my carelessness. I relaxed immediately, the boat's tough design and sturdy construction has me confident to sail out of shore, even on day one of testing.

The boat sailed bullet straight in light winds, leeward drift was minimal and heavily ballasted as per the plan. It's stable and great fun. I have a Torqeedo outboard too, just in case, and I must say it's perfect. I could recommend it to any Paradox owner, the "Travel 1003" version.

The water tank may eventually be removed, and your water management adopted, and a few minor changes to the cabin seat and some more padding for my old bones too.

So thrilling to launch and sail the boat after a year of building and dreaming. First day out, 10 kts of wind only at best, and sailing to wind I got an easy 4 kts on a starboard reach. Stayed on the same track for over an hour. Then 5 miles out the wind died, the sea looked like an oil slick, so very calm, so I slept a bit then motored home slowly, 2 kts and a following tide. (I'm not friends with my Yuloh yet)

Fiddled with the sail a lot to get it to set smooth and full. Adjusting the tied off ends of the sail, a bit tighter here a bit looser there, then a crease in the gut of the sail was gone, got a bit more speed too, a full set sail is a great sight.

I am thoroughly satisfied with the boat; it really is everything people say it is. A few more day outings, testing it in heavy weather, then off camping in it along the vast Australian coastline.

Thanks to all the advice I read here; it's a great ship.

More adventures to come, and I'll post them here.

Nick. (Thor)