From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Sailing in big seas
Date: Mon, 23 Nov 2015 09:39:28 +1030

Hi,

I think my decision to sail in bad weather needs explaining. At first it may seem stupid. The forecast was for light wind increasing as the day progressed to 20 plus kts. It was a good forecast, it was mill pond smooth at dawn, ending the day with strong wind and short sharp waves, in shallow water they curl and pound the boat.

The hull is fine, I felt secure inside. It's inevitable, if you sail far enough, that bad weather will find you. So, I thought to test my resolve and limited skill inshore, near a big city, on a weekend, then all services would be available. So, if I did get into trouble (and I did), help and the flat shoreline was nearby.

If the motor had not broken (big disappointment) I would have motored in safely, not achieving my destination then just becomes an unfulfilled wish, not a disaster. Sailing without a destination is just getting blown along or blown about, I always set a goal for the day, mostly a destination, so I'm committed to go point to point and focused on the results, that's what tests are for I suppose?

To be suddenly thrown into bad weather for the first time, a long way from safety, would be too steep a learning curve, and I want to feel, "I've been here before, stop worrying, simply replan the destination."

So, the paradox design rocks around in heavy seas, but stays afloat easily. It's hard to gain ground into wind in a small flat bottomed hull in short choppy water. Find a bay, anchor up, and chill out for a day or two.

I think it was the famous Joshua Slocum who wrote, if you don't have patience and time to spare, don't go sailing, especially long distance sailing. He went through the Magellan Straights into the Pacific, got caught in a long storm, blown back around the Cape, and went through the Magellan Straights again, costing months of time, he had a bigger boat, but no motor. If you haven't read his book, go buy a copy now.

More posts here as I get out sailing, probably next week, I'll sail one day a week now and keep testing, until I'm confident to sail off on longer and longer trips, this time though with a petrol-powered motor made of metal.

Hope everyone's building is progressing well, photos please!

Nick (Thor)