From: nick bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: sail shape
Date: Wed, 25 Nov 2015 03:52:34 +0000 (UTC)

Hi everyone,

I've just seen the sail maker, and my sail has a crease in it when flying? The crease was from the peak to the rear of the boom fitting, the throat or head, down to the clew. He pointed out something that may be obvious to everyone else, maybe not? I made the yard as per the plan and tapered it toward the ends. The taper starts about where the halyard rope joins the yard. He said that the sail I had made was cut to fly on a straight (non-tapered) spar. I am now remaking the yard as a flat square straight and slightly longer affair. So, watch the shape of the spar vs. the cut of the sail. 

I am remaking the yard tomorrow for two reasons: one, I did not want to re-sew the sail to fit the tapered yard arm. Two, the yard needs to be longer for the mark II sail. Also, then the tie-off points on the sail can be altered a little to shuffle the sail into just the right position in relation to the boom, shifting it forward/aft along the yard if needed to help furling and to have it tensioned just right. Going to wind I need the sail full and not creased as it was. You need all the help you can get in choppy head-on seas.

New engine mount being made today from stainless steel. I used a temporary wooden mount to test the exact position needed for the motor to miss the rudder and be tiltable and keep the motor as close as possible to the transom. Electric motor repaired. It had loose bolts, poorly assembled during manufacture, it seems? I'm giving the electric motor one more life before changing it out for my Honda 2.3 hp petrol motor. I like the idea of electric motors and solar panels, so I'll try as hard as I can to get the idea to work.

I live on solar power only here at home. I made the system myself. No power line here. I'm really off-grid, so I'm familiar with solar power and LOVE it (no power bill either). 

Hope everyone is building away frantically.

Nick (Thor)