From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions.
Date: Wed, 3 Feb 2016 15:28:06 +1030

Hi Erik,

I live in Australia and have tested my paradox in rough seas only to the point of being knocked down, not rolled over. The righting moment was fine. I have ballasted the boat with lead bolted along the inside of the hull, inside the chines, as far outboard as I could get it. It helps with dynamic stability, to keep the ballast lead outboard. I asked the engineering department of Adelaide University for advice on it. Nutty I know, but I'm a novice boat builder and like you wanted to be sure.

The rounded deck and roof coupled with the sheer amount of weight in the bilges has me more than convinced it will right itself, if rolled. There are stability graphs around for the paradox, I found them on a Google search and again when I ordered the plans. It's very comforting at sea, it feels solid and stable. I fell asleep the first time I was in it, about 5 miles out from shore . I have other boats and this one is big fun .....

Flotation foam, or insulation foam, placed wherever the space allows, means if the boat is swamped it should sit proud of the water, even when swamped. I measured the buoyancy of the woods I used and did some math on that. Calculated the area that I filled with buoyancy foam (the sort of foam they use to make surfboards, it sands easily and was shaped to fit under the decking and floor in places). There are stories around of one being swamped, bailed, and sailing on.

I let the boat be blown over in about 25 kts of breeze. It sat on its side momentarily. I touched nothing, I just laid there waiting to see what would happen. It popped up, turned into wind a bit, and laid a hull or heaved too, if you like, drifting across the chop sideways until I fiddled with sail and tiller to get it going again. I then reefed the sail and went home. It was an experience that confirmed to me that I'm as safe as the design suggests. Uncomfortable yes, being on its side is not natural, but safe all the same.

Hope this helps.

Nick (THOR)