From: Selby John Starkie <john.starkie@talk21.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions. [2 Attachments]
Date: Wed, 3 Feb 2016 09:52:45 +0000

Having ballast as far outboard as possible might improve the roll characteristics and the dynamic balance,  but will not help the righting moment.
Each outboard weight will balance the other:  as one creates a righting moment the other will balance with a heeling moment.

Hello! I am Erik from northeast Ohio I have a Com-Pac 23 sailboat and sail primarily on Lake Erie. I have been bitten by the Paradox bug and I am researching building one. My main purpose for building will be to sail in the Great Lakes/Georgian Bay skinny waters and a Florida to Bahamas adventure in a couple years (crossing GulfStream of course). I love the elegant simple design of the Paradox but I am still not 100% sold on a keel-less boat out in offshore conditions. In an effort to increase the chance of righting the boat I have been trying to work on a solution to instill more confidence in the event of a capsize. My ideas are in order of preference.

1. Add lead to gap between chine runner and side of boat covering with fiberglass. This will increase the moment arm for self righting. I don't think this will help for a 180 degree roll though.
2. Adding a bolt on lead bulb-keel of 10-12 kg concentrated near end of keel perhaps 15-20cm in length. This will also increase the righting moment arm. It could be taken off when offshore passage is completed.
3. Installing as buoyant mast as possible and/or running a tube through/alongside mast with an inflatable "balloon bladder" at top of mast. Tube could be attached to a small compressed air cylinder allowing it to be filled several times if you get in series of BAD survival storms. 

So there are my ideas on this subject. I want to increase my odds of righting my craft. Have these ideas been tried yet, would they work?

Sent from my iPad

--
Nick Bell 
( THOR) 

Attachment(s): 
image1.JPG
image2.JPG