From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Ballast Tanks Thought Experiment
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2016 16:35:49 +0000 (UTC)

It's also handy to be able to fill the tanks while you're afloat away from the dock and there is no water hose available. Some means of pumping in the water that you're floating in is required.

But I've done away with water ballast on my boat. Gained 70 litres of additional storage space, which is nice. Less faffing at the launch and recovery place and no chance of water seeping out of the plastic inspection ports and wetting my bed. Just increases the towing weight by 70, or, so kgs.but I cam live with that.

I still have the screw cap deck fillers in place, although they aren't connected to any plumbing. So in theory could collect rain water while sitting inside with a plastic bottle held under the fillers, but never have..

Best,
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

------------------------
From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Ballast Tanks Thought Experiment
Date: Monday, 7 March, 2016, 5:22

Hi Guys,

Thank you for your different thoughts on the water ballast tanks. I've now accepted that I must install the breather vents into the mast vent trunk and I don't want to deviate from the plans, if I can avoid it, so I'll probably end up doing it the way the plans say.

Just now, I've noticed that... nowhere on the plans does the vinyl pipe exit onto the deck (the idea of filling the tanks with rainwater from the deck must have come from somewhere else - perhaps Don Elliot's building manual). Wish I'd noticed that earlier!

If I ditch the deck exits this whole tank thing becomes much more logical. All I need is a normal garden hose snap attachment fitting inside the boat with a manual on/off valve along with another two garden hoses with 12v self priming pump in the middle. Orient one way to fill. Swap it the other way to empty. Simple!

Cheers, Rob.