From: paradox@as6jg.freeuk.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Trailer bunks
Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2016 11:02:59 +0100

If you have built according to the plans then you don't have to worry about locating the support under the bulkheads. The structure is strong enough to take the load anywhere. My trailer has 4 transverse rollers. 2 that support it when travelling and 2 more further aft that allow the boat to be winched on and off.

This arrangement means I don't have to put the wheels in the water when using a slipway and also I can easily launch and recover on a dried out beach. After 13 years I still haven't got the brakes wet.

On 11 Apr 2016 at 22:21, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilde] wrote:

I'm looking into buying a trailer at the moment. My first idea was to have an extendable tongue or perhaps a hinged arm attached to the drawbar that I can use at launch time to get the trailer deeper into the water. I was going to have transverse bunks under bulkheads 2 and 4 and float the trailer onto them (my last boat had that system, but it didn't have ballast and it was multichine with stitch and glue). Now that I've started considering ballast, perhaps this isn't the best way. Should I have a transverse bunk under bulkhead 1 and two longitudinal bunks centered under bulkhead 3 and the chines? Once the water ballast is removed will she sit nose up enough to not need a guide up to the bulkhead 1 bunk? Transverse bunks could be made in a U shape to automatically secure the boat once she's on the trailer. Longitudinal bunks won't do that so I would have to use ties downs to keep her on the trailer.
 
There's pros and cons to both arrangements. What do you think?

Cheers,

Rob

PS: Jim... please don't suggest a design that involves unloading the boat onto the slipway and waiting for the tide ;-)

--
Sail when you can, row when you must, motor only when you have to be at work in the morning.

Alastair Law
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>