From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Trailer bunks
Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2016 16:30:11 +0000 (UTC)

Rob

If you're considering bunks it implies that you're going to submerge the trailer and float the boat on and off.

Not good to submerge any  trailer and especially if fitted with brakes.   Even those galvanised hollow rectangular sections rot out from inside and the Paradox when loaded with cruising gear is too heavy for an unbraked trailer .

The trailer that came with my boat was like that and unbraked, rated at 750kgs  and totally inadequate. The suspension actually fractured while on a journey home...

Both my current trailer and Alastair's are totally sorted. We can both launch onto a dry surface or directly into the water  - our choice, depending on the state of the tide when we arrive at the launching place.,,

Because the Paradox has a flat bottom , it's very easy to make up a flat trailer frame with rubber rollers so you can winch the boat on or slide it off without getting the trailer wet. . 

Best
 Jim
 http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/

--------------------------------------------
From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Trailer bunks
Date: Tue, 12 Apr 2016 6:21

I'm looking into buying a trailer at the moment.
My first idea was to have an extendable tongue or perhaps a
hinged arm attached to the drawbar that I can use at launch
time to get the trailer deeper into the water. I was
going to have transverse bunks under bulkheads 2 and 4 and
float the trailer onto them (my last boat had that system,
but it didn't have ballast and it was multichine with
stitch and glue). Now that I've started
considering ballast, perhaps this isn't the best
way. Should I have a transverse bunk under bulkhead 1
and two longitudinal bunks centered under bulkhead 3 and the
chines? Once the water ballast is removed will she sit nose
up enough to not need a guide up to the bulkhead 1 bunk?
Transverse bunks could be made in a U shape to automatically
secure the boat once she's on the trailer. Longitudinal
bunks won't do that so I would have to use ties downs to
keep her on the trailer.

There's pros and cons to both arrangements. What do you
think?

Cheers,

Rob

PS: Jim... please don't suggest a design that
involves unloading the boat onto the slipway and waiting for
the tide ;-)