From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: ballast
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2016 21:15:06 +0930


Hi , sailing has been fun, sailed yesterday in perfect weather, lapped an island, about a 20 mile journey, my longest day sail yet, no challenge at all, good winds, calm flat sea, perfect temperatures too, a balmy 27 degrees C, (Wardang Island off the coast of Yorke Peninsular).

The trip before, in the same location, a passer by in a fishing boat called the Coast Guard and they all but insisted on towing me back, I was about 5 to 6 nautical miles off shore in a head wing and rough seas) - a two hour tow in. The swell wasn't a worry, I rather crave the feeling of being lifted and lowered rhythmically. The chop was another story, thumping the hull loudly.

I was wondering if the blog could include sailing tips? Sail setting tips, especially in stronger head winds and getting caught in irons when tacking. (More foreword ballast has helped that, I think? I added a tractor battery, a big one into compartment two, ahead of the mast.)

In a rough sea and strong wind it seemed better on the starboard tack to lower the sail a little to keep it well off the mast, that made it fly fuller and somehow? Pull harder. And I made headway. On the port tack it went poorly, slipping backwards while ploughing into a heavy chop. Two steps forward one step back stuff, turning the boat was only possible with the motor running :(. Having limited experience, and with only a Bermuda rig, I'm behind the learning curve, it keeps confusing me that a sail set wider seems to increase speed at times. I watch my gps speed and fiddle with the main sheet to see if I can milk another fraction of a knot out of it.

Soon, Winter weather will force me on the road, towing my Paradox to Northern Australia, a three day drive, following the sun and experiencing trade wind like breezes in Queensland. Tropical water and lots of sun, and the need to tack back to port to end my days sailing. Here the winds can vary a lot, is it possible to run out and run back, what a dream run you can have with winds at 30 plus degrees south. Up there I need to be able to sail to windward more I think?

If anyone has useful tips please post them.

Nick. (THOR)