From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2016 10:43:07 +0000 (UTC)
Subject: Re: ballast

Some interesting stuff in your posting Rob. Thanks.

One issue that I have with my Mk2 sail is that it generally doesn't roll up evenly when I reef, which spoils the shape and stresses/pulls unevenly on the cloth where it's creased..

I've noticed a very marked deterioration in performance when this happens.

I'm looking for a solution to this problem - if anyone knows.... 

Best
 Jim
 http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/


From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2016 01:49:00 -0700 (MST)
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Re: ballast

A shame I'm not ready yet to compare notes. All I can go on is my last boat which had a balanced lug. High luff tension is critical, since if the sail is allowed to billow in strong winds drive is reduced. So I found it strange to hear that you were able to get more drive by letting the sail hang away from the mast on starboard tack.

Allowing the peak to sag is also really bad news as the excessive sail twist it induces removes most of your drive. I think this is why most people discover that the port tack is better than starboard tack, because with a standing lug, pressing the yard against the mast reduces sail twist.

With lug sails, I think your objective should be to keep the sail as flat as you can (I'm not talking about sail draft which you definitely need - flat cut sails don't go to windward very well). For that people use multi-purchase tack downhauls, boom vangs, gaff vangs and peak halyards, none of which Paradox has.

The Chinese knew to keep their sails flat but they used batten parrels and upper and lower sheetlets through euphroes because their ropes and sails weren't strong enough to cope with high luff tensions.

Now this is all speculation, but I'm thinking that with the Paradox Mk 1 sail, Matt used the tapered boom in conjunction with the very low peak and multi-purchase sheet to keep the sail as flat as possible when reefed in strong conditions, since the sail approaches being a rectangle when reefed. Then again, perhaps he just wanted to keep the boom out of the water!