From: Stephen Barwell <surfgarden@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions. [2 Attachments]
Date: Fri, 22 Apr 2016 07:58:18 +0000 (UTC)

Hi Nick, among your posts I noticed mention of heading north this winter, you ncluded the word Queensland. I live on Nth Stradbroke Island and have a Paradox mid construction here. I hold a sailing/paddle (&amp;stealth) event here for any vessel that can start and finish in three feet of water. It's called THEJOLLYBOD held in, Winter/July and Summer/January. The 6th Jollybod happens 23rd/24th July, perhaps this fits into your northern sailing schedule. The 23rd a Saturdsy is a raft-up the day before the main event. Sailing/fishing/surfing etc is great here year round. I'll do my best to make you and Thor welcome if you turn up. Here is the event website: thejollybod.com. contact me (Steve Barwell) here at the Paradox group or surfgarden@yahoo.com.au or simply call me on +61479059713.=C2=A0

Sent from Yahoo7 Mail on Android

Hi Erik , I live in Australia and have tested my paradox in rough seasOnly to the point of being knocked down , not rolled overAnd the righting moment was fine , I have ballasted the boat with lead bolted along the inside of the hull , inside the chines , as far outboard as I could get it , it helps the dynamic stability , to keep the ballast lead outboard . I asked the engineering department of Adelaide University for advice on it . Nutty I know , but I'm a novice boat builder and like you wanted to be sure .

The rounded deck and roof coupled with the sheer amount of weight in the bilges has me more than convinced it will right itself , if rolled , there are stability graphs around too , for the a Paradox , I found them on a Google search and again when I ordered the plans . It's very comforting at sea , it feels solid and stable . I fell asleep the first time I was in it , about 5 miles out from shore . I have other boats and this one is big fun .....

Flotation foam , or if you like , insulation foam , placed wherever the space allows , means if the boat is swamped it should sit proud of the water , even when swamped=C2=A0I measured the buoyancy of the woods I used . Did some math on that .Calculated the area that I filled with buoyancy foam ( the sort of foam they use to make surfboards , it sands easily and was shaped to fit under the decking and floor in places , see the pic below )=C2=A0There are stories around of one being swamped , bailed , and sailing on .

I let the boat be blown over in about 25 kts of breezeIt sat on its side momentarilyI touched nothing , I just laid =C2=A0there waiting to see what would happenIt popped up , turned into wind a bit , and laid a hull , or heaved too ,if you like , =C2=A0drifting across the chop sideways until I fiddled with sail and tiller to get it going again, I then reefed the sail and went home . It Was an experience that confirmed to me that I'm as safe as the design suggests lUncomfortable yes , being on its side is not natural , but safe all the same .

Hope this helpsNick=C2=A0
( THOR)=C2=A0

Hello! I am Erik from northeast Ohio I have a Com-Pac 23 sailboat and sail primarily on Lake Erie. I have been bitten by the Paradox bug and I am researching building one. My main purpose for building will be to sail in the Great Lakes/Georgian Bay skinny waters and a Florida to Bahamas adventure in a couple years (crossing GulfStream of course). I love the elegant simple design of the Paradox but I am still not 100% sold on a keel-less boat out in offshore conditions. In an effort to increase the chance of righting the boat I have been trying to work on a solution to instill more confidence in the event of a capsize. My ideas are in order of preference.

1. Add lead to gap between chine runner and side of boat covering with fiberglass. This will increase the moment arm for self righting. I don't think this will help for a 180 degree roll though.
2. Adding a bolt on lead bulb-keel of 10-12 kg concentrated near end of keel perhaps 15-20cm in length. This will also increase the righting moment arm. It could be taken off when offshore passage is completed.
3. Installing as buoyant mast as possible and/or running a tube through/alongside mast with an inflatable "balloon bladder" at top of mast. Tube could be attached to a small compressed air cylinder allowing it to be filled several times if you get in series of BAD survival storms.

So there are my ideas on this subject. I want to increase my odds of righting my craft. Have these ideas been tried yet, would they work?