From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions. [2 Attachments]
Date: Fri, 22 Apr 2016 18:45:55 +0930


Wowee !
Thank you so much for your email
If my plans work out I'll be there , you can hop aboard and sail my boat and get a feel for the one
your building
Thank you again , I could really get into the idea of meeting another Paradox fan

I'm sailing here again this coming week in strong winds
Only because we have a hot day or two  ,  intruding into what should be Autumn
The test in the stronger  winds will be in shallow choppy water
It's the only sea I'm struggling with and I need experience in those trying conditions

Hope I can visit your event
Nick


From: Stephen Barwell surfgarden@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions. [2 Attachments]
Date: Fri, 22 Apr 2016 08:28:50 +0000 (UTC)

Hi Nick, among your posts I noticed mention of heading north this winter, you included the word Queensland. I live on Nth Stradbroke Island and have a Paradox mid construction here. I hold a sailing/paddle (&amp;stealth) event here for any vessel that can start and finish in three feet of water. It's called THEJOLLYBOD held in, Winter/July and Summer/January. The 6th Jollybod happens 23rd/24th July, perhaps this fits into your northern sailing schedule. The 23rd a Saturday is a raft-up the day before the main event. Sailing/fishing/surfing etc is great here year round. I'll do my best to make you and Thor welcome if you turn up. Here is the event website: thejollybod.com. contact me (Steve Barwell) here at the Paradox group or surfgarden@yahoo.com.au or simply call me on +61479059713.


From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Introduction, Chine runner / mast questions. [2 Attachments]
Date: Tue, 9 Feb 2016 04:54:20 +1030

( THOR)

Hi Erik , I live in Australia and have tested my paradox in rough seas
Only to the point of being knocked down , not rolled over
And the righting moment was fine , I have ballasted the boat with lead bolted along the inside of the hull , inside the chines , as far outboard as I could get it , it helps the dynamic stability , to keep the ballast lead outboard . I asked the engineering department of Adelaide University for advice on it . Nutty I know , but I'm a novice boat builder and like you wanted to be sure .

The rounded deck and roof coupled with the sheer amount of weight in the bilges has me more than convinced it will right itself , if rolled , there are stability graphs around too , for the a Paradox , I found them on a Google search and again when I ordered the plans . It's very comforting at sea , it feels solid and stable . I fell asleep the first time I was in it , about 5 miles out from shore . I have other boats and this one is big fun .....

Flotation foam , or if you like , insulation foam , placed wherever the space allows , means if the boat is swamped it should sit proud of the water , even when swamped
I measured the buoyancy of the woods I used . Did some math on that .
Calculated the area that I filled with buoyancy foam ( the sort of foam they use to make surfboards , it sands easily and was shaped to fit under the decking and floor in places , see the pic below )

There are stories around of one being swamped , bailed , and sailing on .

I let the boat be blown over in about 25 kts of breeze
It sat on its side momentarily
I touched nothing , I just laid  there waiting to see what would happen
It popped up , turned into wind a bit , and laid a hull , or heaved too ,if you like ,  drifting across the chop sideways until I fiddled with sail and tiller to get it going again, I then reefed the sail and went home . It Was an experience that confirmed to me that I'm as safe as the design suggests l
Uncomfortable yes , being on its side is not natural , but safe all the same .

Hope this helps
Nick


Note: Removed the original message being replied to.