From: Stephen Barwell <surfgarden@yahoo.com.au>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: ballast
Date: Sat, 23 Apr 2016 11:38:41 +0000 (UTC)

Earlier did you mean there is a Paradox being built now that will use a junk rig? Is that Paradox your Paradox? The physics of the junksail itself seem paradoxical and enigmatic. If you are the matchmaker I send my best wishes. I hope the Paradox and junksail engagement works out. Two wildcards that might make the perfect couple.

Sent from Yahoo7 Mail on Android

On Sat, 23 Apr, 2016 at 21:21, eerikmee@gmail.com [paradoxbuilders]<paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:   

Stephen,

What is meant by having a little stress on junk sail is that each panel acts as a single sail, due to its battens being additional "booms". Therefore the each sail has very small area and bears smaller stresses (comparing to lugsail having full sail area just between boom and yard). On contrary, Jim has expressed concern that the junksail may be too heavy, and tilt the boat too much; due to having many heavy battens, and also the extra sail cloth for forming camber. Hopefully we'll see...

Regards,
Eerik

Stephen Barwell: 
Oops! Just thought of something worrying about marrying a junk rig with a Paradox. The lugsail (being a big powerful lug of a thing) tilts the Paradox over to that audacious angle enabling the chine-runners to do their thing. Am I right so far? The junk rig is as aerodynamically efficient but unaccompanied by the 'lug of a thing' power lugsails and other 'western' sails possess. Junksail are famous for how little stress is exerted upon the rig, resulting in a lot of money saved not having to pay for wear ans tear and the expensive cloth and construction required in lug/bermuda sails. So the junksailed Paradox stands upright and goes really well sideways, the chine-runners never being properly employed. It would be good if this assumption is wrong. But if this is the problem Matt twigged to it a couple of decades ago.