From: Stephen Barwell <surfgarden@yahoo.com.au>
To: "paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: ballast
Date: Sun, 24 Apr 2016 07:04:27 +0000 (UTC)

Lazyjacks for reefing rather than furling eliminates creases in the rolling. A system of laying over the dropped rig to lie along beside the cabin could be devised... maybe. The windage problem is so terrible? That is unfortunate. I will offer the problem up to the junkrig forums online.

Sent from Yahoo7 Mail on Android 
 
On Sun, 24 Apr, 2016 at 16:19, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders]<paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

My feeling is that a junk rig on a Paradox sized boat wouldn't be very satisfactory. At 100 sq ft the sail is too small for the complexity involved and all the weight and windage (I came to the conclusion on my last boat that windage is very bad - Matt's Paradox as designed has very low windage) with battens and lines would be sub-optimal. I think somebody has already pointed out that the sheetlets won't work because the leech is behind the transom since Paradox's CLR is well back on the boat.

The only aspect of a junk rig that I could see working is to add lightweight flexible battens to the starboard side of a sail that already has draft across the entire sail and incorporate fixed batten parrels. Retain the existing sheeting arrangement. Benefits would be no need for high luff tensions and no sail chafe as the battens bear against the mast, not the sail.

But..., now you need lazy jacks and the rig is always over your head at anchor, roller furling is gone and instead you must manually reef by tying the battens together with reefing cringles.

I had a setup like this on my previous 15' boat and it worked well for that boat. Not so sure about a Paradox though, since the boom is so close to the water. His roller furling tapered boom ensures the boom clew can't catch in the water and break. The junk set-up also forces you to give up on the whole sail controls from below gig.