From: mbolduc@triad.rr.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Micro-cruiser windvane steering
Date: 03 Jun 2016 10:58:08 -0700


Lately I've been thinking about windvane steering for micro-cruisers, and I especially liked Glen Maxwell's rudder head version that he created for his Paradox, ZOE. However, I don't remember reading too much about its performance and never will be able to see first hand now that the boat has been lost.  :(

Personally, I've never used any type of automated steering aboard LITTLE CRUISER or ENIGMA, but then I've never had to hand steer for more than a few days in a row. If I was planning a longer trip or I just wanted to free myself from hand steering altogether, it would be nice to have one on board for sure. Now it's true that most boats, including Matt Layden's sharpies, will steer themselves on certain points of sail for long periods of time with just the helm cleated off and the sails trimmed; however, this isn't always a reliable solution for all wind and sea conditions. I guess the simplest approach for most would be to purchase an electric autohelm and connect it to the tiller lines like a few others have done before. However, the main problem I see with this system is that you need generous electrical resources and sufficient charging capacity to keep your batteries replenished. On a boat like ENIGMA, I only carry a 7.5 A/H gel battery due to the limited storage space aboard so I don't think it would be sufficient. There is also the problem that if your electric autohelm malfunctions, it might require special parts and professional servicing to get it working again. This would be very inconvenient since often I cruise far from civilization. 

Now, when it comes to windvane steering for really small boats, there aren't many choices if any at all. Most of the major brands like Monitor, Aries, Hydrovane, and even Navik were never designed for our type of minuscule watercraft, and therefore they are really too heavy to even consider. However, in searching on the internet I did notice that one new manufacturer called Mr. Vee actually has a unit they call Mr. Vane that weighs only 12 pounds. Of course, the main downside of this unit as well as any others is the relatively high cost of the unit, but there is plenty of information on the web on making your own if you have the mechanical skills. From what I've read so far, the newer designs seem to have (USD) up side down wind vanes and they focus on minimizing friction on the moving parts, which all translates into better light air performance especially downwind. You can get some ideas on how to possibly design or even make your own at Advanced http://windvaneselfsteering.com/waltmurray/advanced.htm. In addition, there is an active group with discussions on the subject of both commercial and homemade windvane steering at Cruise Sailor • View forum - Windvane Forum http://www.cruisenews.net/forum/viewforum.php?f=62.