From: james hall <flexwing462@yahoo.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sat, 4 Jun 2016 14:43:02 +0000 (UTC)
Subject: Re: Micro-cruiser windvane steering


Hi Dave

To address your comment at the beginning of this thread.

To have any self steering - even an electric one, helps so much with life when sailing. It makes it easier to read the chart, make coffee, prepare a sandwich, work out what the tide is doing and take a short break while under way.

I find my Paradox will self-steer easily when the wind is from forward, or exactly abeam, but when from aft and there're big waves it's much more difficult to hold a steady course. The electric tiller pilot copes well running when the conditions are quiet, but if the waves are big it gets far too busy, constantly making corrections. It sometimes goes into an orgy of over correcting, which takes a fair while for the machine to eventually stop. Then after a short break for rest, it starts its frantic activity over again. That's when I turn it off for a while and go back to hand steering.....The favoured technique to make steering easier is to reef early, for less stress on me and the sail and less rolling downwind.

If the 'duty cycle' is kept low, so that the machine's motor is only operating 10 or 20 per cent of the time, then the electricity consumption is bearable - (perhaps less than half an amp average) and with the long periods of summer daylight that we get here it's easy to keep the battery topped up with the solar panel. But would obviously need more than your little 7.5 a/h battery; (mine is 10 times that.)
So, I'm pleased that I have my electric tiller pilot, Although it's not a perfect solution, it's better than nothing. 

As to the windvane. The mr V is very light and uses a lot of plastic in its construction to keep weight low., so not sure how robust and durable it would be. I already have a Honda outboard engine on the stern (12 KG) so to add more aft would effect the trim and add more complication. Also it would have to lift up for when in the shallows, as does the lifting rudder, and be something else to get tangled with the mainsheet while tacking. 

But Glen made a vane gear that worked OK, so do-able for those who are ingenious and with more energy than me.

Best
Jim
http://jimtimes.wordpress.com/