From: Larry Whited <lwhited@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 13 Mar 2003 15:35:14 -0800 (PST)
Subject: Re: another race comment:-)

I think its near Flamingo. The bulge in the land that protrudes westerly. Interesting idea: two in a Pearl. Sleeper would make good ballast. The race has certainly changed from it's initial form. Limiting the lenth on the down side seems counterintuitive and conterproductive. Perhaps, creating a special class for overweight or overlenth boats would be in order. We'll see what the tribe comes up with for next year. Should be interesting.

Ron Eike <reike2@comcast.net> wrote:
Hi Larry,

Maybe the Chief will have a minimum length of 15 feet next year.

I wonder if Matt happened to catch a couple of wind changes in the
right place? I suspect that a Pearl with a 2 man crew and 2 rowing
stations could be more competative. They could keep going 24 hours a
day and have sufficient horsepower (OK manpower) to keep going in a
calm.

The latest report from SnoreBringGator via Chiefs Wife:

He says he is on Cape Sable doing fine. Setting up to watch a nice sunset as a 21 foot Sea Pearl sails by.

Please enlighten me, none of my road maps show Cape Sable.

Ron reike2@comcast.net

LW> Most will tell you that the Pearl rows ok mostly to get you out of a hard chance or a modest distance at no more than 3 mph. It rows pretty good but not near as easily as the yaloh with experience. I'd fancy a Pearl doing quite nicely with two rowing stations. My tri would be a likely candidate for a yaloh. I'd bet the qualifications you site for Matt made a huge difference not matter what the boat.

Larry

Original Message:  
LW> Wave action really slows the light seapearl especially to windward where it is constantly thrown off the waves.  The heavy paradox powers through the slop with inertia.  The comfort motion of the paradox is much better on the body too.  
Larry (owner of a 21 mono, seapearl tri, and sp28)

Nels <arvent@hotmail.com> wrote:
Hi Larry,

I was also wondering how efficientely a Seapearl rows with one person? At the beginning, there was very little wind. Obviously Matt knows how to use a yuloh as well as being a very skilled sailer, strategist and navigator:-) 

Perhaps he may have created a class of his own! The microcruiser class. Or gotten himself banned altogether!

Nels

Yahoo! Groups Sponsor

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
Yahoo! Web Hosting - establish your business online