From: bourbeau@videotron.ca
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Storage space?
Date: 09 Jun 2016 11:10:44 -0700


Storage space on a Paradox? Plenty or spartan? I suppose it depends on the point of view. A Paradox is a micro-cruiser. As such, it supposes you pack a little bit like a lightweight backpacker. Sure, if you want to bring the mattress you have in your house, you'll run out of room quick. Same if you try to pack your home kitchen pots and pans, dishes and utensils. But viewed from the perspective of a backpacker or a canoe camper who portages, the Paradox has very generous storage.

This winter I crossed the entire Everglades park in my 8-foot-long Gorfnik packed with two weeks worth of food and water. No problem. In comparison, my Paradox is a palace. In the bow of the boat, I only put emergency stuff which I hope I will never have to access: spare anchor rodes, extra water, pieces of wood for repairs etc. In the forward stateroom, on the port side near the battery, I keep pail and wag bags, extra sail and packraft dinghy with break-apart paddle. Under the forward stateroom floor, two extra anchors and other repair gear I hope not to use, which counter-balance the weight of the battery. The forward stateroom itself is where I toss my sleeping bag, pillow (down jacket in pillow case) and inflatable sleeping pad (down filled Exped Mat), which doubles as a comfortable lounge chair.

My boat does not have full length side bins, just a half bin on port side and a net on starboard side. This means that I sleep in the right half of the boat, and the entire left side is available for storage. That's where I put my folding Brompton bicycle (front) with sun/rain umbrella tucked behind it and my packsack of clothes (rear). Mosquito netting, gloves, fur cap and wind jacket go in the net. I have small cubbies everywhere for small items such as batteries, sewing kit, tape, everyday utensils, toiletries and so on. Repair kit, small axe, saw, drill and so on go under the floor port. Most food and water under the floor as well, starboard. IPad with Garmin bluecharts hangs from port ceiling. GPS, mirror, and VHF radio all have special hanging places. Spot responder goes in lifejacket under the seat, next to logbook case.

The day's food is in a small portable cooler which in bad weather is tied down just back of forward stateroom. In fair weather the map sits on it, and it serves as a dining room «table». Extra food and some water goes in forward stateroom and in rearmost cubby. In the 4 rear compartments, forward starboard is for stove, fuel and all cooking gear, while forward port is anchor and chain with rode in its pail, tied down of course, plus sponge, whisk broom, and pee bottle. Rearmost starboard is for sea anchor and rode, water pump, fenders and fishing gear. Rearmost port is for more food and water, ukulele and extra anything.

Under the floor I have 400 lbs of bricks or so. If I wanted 30 day or more of autonomy, I would replace these with fresh water bottles, refilled with sea water to maintain ballast. But I ain't crossing oceans, so the bricks are there to stay. Plenty of room as is, especially since I restock as I go.

Took out Paradox Iota again yesterday on a nearby wilderness lake, she's looking sprightly with her new coat of paint inside and out as well as new windows. A charm I tell you. Sails like a dream. Keep building folks, you won't regret it.

André-François Bourbeau