From: okiebobby@ymail.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Foredeck Hatch?
Date: 29 Jan 2017 02:46:43 +0000

Okay I did a pretty thorough exploration today of my recently acquired Paradox, including spelunking into the forward compartment between bulkheads 1 & 2. I'm 50, small framed, but definitely not limber. I crawled headfirst, flashlight in hand, while lying on my right side. 

I don't consider myself claustrophobic, and used to swim close to a kilometer for daily exercise. That much time with your head immersed underwater and flipping upside down at each turn weaned me from what little fear of suffocation I had at the time.

Once I got my upper body wedged into that compartment, I had to flashback to my underwater breath control, but not having swam regularly in five years, I ended up feeling claustrophobic. I pressed on with good breath control, wanting to explore the forepeak. Then it happened, SNAP. Something slipped in my back. It's happened before, not in a very long time, each time it is an unexpected shock.

So I'm lying there on my right side, my face pressed up to bulkhead #1 where I had been trying to look through a medium sized inspection port. Wondering if I'm going to get stuck in there, since it hurts like hell anytime I use my lower back muscles. After a brief rest, unsuccessfully trying to relax my back, I awkwardly managed to crawl backwards, contort my left arm and shoulders past bulkhead #2, and make it back into the cabin.

Somehow I ended up lying flat on my back, feet forward. While trying unsuccessfully to find a comfortable enough position for the back spasm to relent, I realized the length of the cabin really isn't long enough to take full advantage of the width since the vent box splits the floor. I had to keep my feet to the port side in order to stretch to my full length, a modest 5'9". Note to self: measure the cabin length once the spasm subsides. Surprised the hell out of me. At 5'9", I never would have thought the 6'3" cabin length would ever feel close to short. I'll need to reassess (and measure) when my back feels normal.

Yes, I would agree the opening to the forward stateroom is a tight fit. Granted I'm carrying at least 10lbs extra from the holidays. My big question, is what do others store in the forepeak? And how on earth do they get to these items?

Even with the wrenched back, which I still have this evening, I had a blast today exploring the various nooks and crannies of the staunch little boat. Good thing I explored the aft areas first, and the forward areas last. :)