From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Sun, 29 Jan 2017 21:43:51 -0500
Subject: Re: [Paradox] Re: Storage & Sleeping

Bobbie, last summer I spent many hours in that front hatch repainting Iota and then glueing foam onto sides and ceiling.  So I know what you are talking about.

The very forward hatch is really not accessible for day to day use without undue contorsions.  The original plan calls for it to be sealed, I believe the floatation would be necessary in case of hull breach.  Way up there in front, like Al, I store things which will never be used during normal cruising.  For example, extra anchor rodes, spare sail and pieces of wood and plywood for repairs.  I also leave an extra gallon or two of water tied up there in front, above and beyond what I think I will need, for dire emergencies and as ballast.

Even the forward "stateroom" is not of very easy access. I try to only go there once a day, it’s where I keep my bedroll, night clothing and inflatable pack raft. On the left is the battery which is counterbalanced by extra anchors in the trap under the right floor.  

In the main cabin, my boat does not have full side bins, so I keep my folding bike in the cabin front left, besides the vent box.  It fits there just fine without interfering.  It is counterbalanced by the crate of fresh groceries which is strapped to the floor on the right of the vent box.  Yes, I have to move it aside once a day to switch positions with the stored sleeping gear.  

In the Paradox, I find that I always sleep on the right side of the boat, my Exped down mat fits just fine to the right of the vent box.  It’s thickness would permit me to shove my feet into the stateroom if I was taller, but I'm short so it doesn’t matter. The bike, my night clothes and my day pack sitting on the left side counter my body weight to level out the boat.  What also helps level out the boat is keeping cans, water bottles and heavy food under the left floor, with dry food and repair kit on the right. Mind you, my boat only has a net on the right side, might be different in a standard configuration where you might have to sleep a bit on the diagonal.

Hope your back heals quickly!

André-François