From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox Build in magazine
Date: Tue, 28 Feb 2017 19:53:44 +1030

Out sailing for three days on the sea
So far so good , a light wind all day , a tacking duel to leave port against an incoming tide , for three hours , ugh !
And a secluded wide beach to anchor over night tonight .

Better winds forecast tomorrow , heading north in Spencer Gulf , 200 km from Adeliade , South Australia , heat wave conditions , under a big high pressure system . 18C at night 36C during the day , perfect for camping and sailing .

Full belly and a comfy bed await , hope others are out sailing too

Nick
Thor

Leaving port this morning

On 3 Jan 2017, Barnacle BillMag wrote:

Thanks Nick,

that looks brilliant. Congratulations on what appears to be a fantastic build - the end results are amazing.

I'll be in touch soon

Happy New Year

Richard

On 9 Dec 2016, Nick Bell wrote:

Hi Richard
I built a paradox to plan in South Australia
I am sailing it again soon , only have six trips in it so far
Thor

I have photos from various stages of the building process
The mast is non standard , I had a birds mouth mast made by Duck Flat Wooden boats here in Australia
If the photos would help I'll send them
Nick Bell


On 9 Dec 2016, Barnacle BillMag wrote:

Hello everyone,

I publish Barnacle Bill Magazine, we're planning to cover a couple of in house builds in 2017 and one of those will be a Paradox. This will be done in a domestic situation in a garage in the UK and there will be no cheating (pros/very expensive tools etc..)
I have a set of plans and have Don's excellent manual from Wanda. The build will either start in January or June - we will also be building a Michalak ScramPram and have to complete a Storer Oz Goose first.

I would be very interested in corresponding with Paradox sailors and builders form around the world as we do this and also am very interested in gathering opinions and adventures to introduce the design to new potential micro cruising enthusiasts. It would be great if we could publish info on several Paradox's and their owners in different parts of the world, their views on the boat, tips, mods and also comments on handling etc.

One thing I have found in our sector is that boats can go through generational popularity. A group of folk retire and start to build a good design, the design inspires others and more folk build the boat. But then age catches up with us and the knowledge accrued in the build ad in the boat design itself can be lost to posterity. Some boats deserve immortality and it is my firm belief that the Paradox is one of those, given its popularity, its clever design and the chine log system. Groups like this and constant enthusiasm for the design ensures immortality. Publishing does as well and as our copy is logged at the British Library as a mater of statutory requirement, it will be preserved for as long as that institution stands.

Please drop me a line if you are interested in taking part.
I will also be on here asking for a lot of help!
cheers

Richard