From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Paradox Build in magazine
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 2017 19:59:16 +1030

Wow , freezing weather ? I had my whole body covered to prevent sunburn .
Found my first freak wave , it rolled my boat 90 degrees , it took some water in too
Had to dry the bilges that afternoon .

I cut a corner on a cape , looking for the current around the channel by the shore , that would speed me up , a day of light wind had me frustrated , averaging under 2 knots and motoring a little .
A wave broke just 5 metres beside me , in very shallow water , it was parallel to the hull , it rolled the boat quickly onto its starboard side , I was standing in the hatch and had to hang on tight.
The boat righted itself immediately , God bless the ballast and the rugged design
I was pushed to shore a little by the wave with the mast head under water
Got soaking wet and a bit scared , but even with the sail partially under water it sprung straight up as the wave passed under me .
Could easily have been prevented by more careful map reading and more patience .
No more close in sailing in strong currents for me , the combination of a strong current and shallows is ripe for changeable waves to form .

Sailed for an hour in the dark too , that was unnerving , never having sailed much and never having sailed in the dark . Won't make a habit of it , I had a safety line trailing behind the boat , it's a length of floating ski tow rope , bright yellow so as to be easy to see , and I was tethered to the hull by a light line roped to my life jacket .
A lighthouse 8 miles across the bay guided me , I had to turn sharply at day break ,in half light , I almost ran over a fishing net being set some three miles out from shore.

But for my first camping trip it was successful , fun , adventurous , and I'll do it again very soon
The Autumn weather will come in a few weeks , bringing stronger winds and cool to cold ( for Australia) cool to cold nights .

I hope you have a perfect sailing experience
Post your adventures when you can I love reading them
Nick
( Thor)