From: tiki30sailor@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stretched Paradoxes Sailing?
Date: 24 Apr 2017 22:33:45 +0000


John,

In my land Bermuda/Marconi are the same rig. There are masthead or fractional Bermuda/Marconi rigs. I don't doubt your old Leeboard might have done well. Did it tack through a true 70-90degs, which any decent sloop will do? How many boat lengths did it lose while lowering the windward board then raising the new windward board? I race a Wayfarer 16 and Flying Scot 19 both will do better than 90 and pinch higher.

But anyway I was commenting on the statement of leeboard being superior to a fin, which I find hard to believe given that a leeboard suffers greater drag due to penetrating the water surface which matters in light airs and then suffers wave impact on the rotating/mounting mechanism when the wind is up, it just can't keep up with a fin. Also there is the extra weight and complexity of doubling the underwater lifting fin.

As for angled fins, unless they are articulating and can swing to vertical any gain at one angle of heel is lost at another. But then there are swinging fins out there. Not all sailing is done in 7-10kts :)

As for symmetrical vs A then it depends again, IIRC (been many years since University), the symmetrical foil has less drag than the asymmetrical hence one of the reasons the NA P-51 was so damn fast. That's something I would love to test, lift vs drag of S vs A. Also, you'll pay hell for every second you leave the new windward board (stalled) down after the tack, assuming we're not so overpowered the windward board is clear of the water. It would seem you need to very nearly simultaneously raise and drop boards when head to wind not to lose time to the fin.

Tom, ease the sheets, well, certainly the Lug has more lifting area for a given hoist than the main triangle of a sloop, but on one tack the lug will suffer due to the mast on the sail. But then on a reach, a sloop also has both the main and genoa lifting, and that's where my small race boats get up on a plane and the real fun begins smoking past boats with twice our WLW! My 19 will do a GPS 10mph on a reach with wind.

As for Junk rigs, again much character, but I haven't seen/noticed any winning races. They certainly have their attractions in fact I'd like to build one, but high performance isn't what it's known for.