From: Tom Sorensen <tdsoren@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stretched Paradoxes Sailing?
Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2017 12:03:40 -0700


Once again, those aft leaning stays restrict how far out the main can be sheeted necessitating some kind of Jib, genoa or spinnaker. Accidental jibes are a real danger, and much more likely due to the sheeting issues. I’m well aware of the slot effect, but that’s achieved on the split junks recently designed.

Modern Bermudan rigs were developed to maximize windward ability under racing rules that limited sail area. As with sailplanes, the longer and skinnier you can make that wing reduces the drag induced at the tip. This comes at the cost of a lot of expensive hardware and multiple sails on the boat. With lug rigs, you can maximize the sail area for any given mast height and have a lower CE meaning you can stand up to more total area. Once you get away from maximizing performance to windward, you have a rig that kicks ass on a reach or downwind using 3 sticks and almost no expensive special hardware.

A properly cut and tuned lug rig goes just fine to windward. Can it out point a finely tuned bermudan sloop? No. Can it out point a poorly tuned and sailed Bermudan sloop? Yes. At a fraction of the cost and complexity.

If you want to get more performance at the expense of complexity but still only have one sail on the boat, I suggest you take a look at this.
http://www.junkrigassociation.org/Resources/Documents/Slieve's%20Files/AYRS%20Catalyst%2037.pdf

Another option that avoids stays and multiple sails is here. No slouch to windward. Not precisely a lug, but still a much simplified rig.
http://www.wyliecat.com

In my humble opinion lugs of many sorts are a superior pleasure sailing rig when it comes to cost vs benefit as well as ease of handling. If your life revolves around racing around buoys, then by all means stick with the rig developed expressly for that purpose. I’m sure West Marine and North Sails appreciate your business :-)

Tom


tom sorensen
tdsoren@yahoo.com