From: okiebobby@ymail.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Mike's 2nd Paradox
Date: 14 May 2017 04:50:16 +0000

Last weekend, I had my first sail in a Paradox, s/v Oogway.  I was a bit nervous, since I seem to recall posts in this group from new Paradox sailors that mention trouble with tacking, furling, etc.

Trailering and Launching

First off, it trailers like a dream.  Stepping the mast and rigging are a snap (I practiced once at home prior to going to the lake.). Mike matched the perfect trailer to the Paradox; launching went smoothly.  I don't have a mount set up for the yuloh yet, so while standing I used an oar to paddle from the trailer to a dock about 35 yards.  Not pretty, but it went okay.  There was a powerboater that made it more challenging for me than I originally planned out.  No harm no foul.  The ramp was busy with powerboats arriving and departing.

Sailing

After parking the trailer, I walked back to the dock nervously wondering how the next critical step would go.  I needed to head downwind to clear the dock and round up immediately on a starboard tack to avoid getting pushed into a marina 25 yards downwind.  Sorry I don't remember the details on that first dance, but I do recall being pleasantly surprised how things went.  I didn't let full sail out.  The practice at home had forewarned me that furling may prove to be difficult.

I continued east on a starboard beam reach skirting past the marina and toward the main part of the lake.  Many sailors were participating in a regatta, and I point up as I approached their path to avoid interfering with their race.  So far I was giddy, because I did not expect things to go this smoothly.

As I went far enough east, I finally past protective land to catch stronger winds, and as a gust was coming in.  I saw it coming and prepared for the boat to heal.  That too went well, but I still wasn't ready to relax.  After I crossed an opening in the regatta path between the tail end of the faster boats and the front end the slower boats, I continued SE on a close starboard reach heading toward the dam.  About this time I'm thinking damn Matt really designed a great little boat and Mike nailed the build.  The boat seemed so well balanced, I was very pleasantly pleased.  To put things into perspective, I'm assuming Mike had to tinker with where to attach the halyard to the yard; so that, the boat is balanced.  As a buyer and not a builder, this critical step was already done.  The balanced rudder designed also seems to be balls on accurate, kudos to Matt.

My confidence is building, I'm starting to relax, and am running out of lake.  Time for the first real tack.  Fail.  Ended up having to fall off and jibe.  Not sure what happened.  I thought I had enough speed.  That day I probably had at least three failed tacks may be four.  Most of the time the tacks went fine.  I really didn't see a pattern.  Still learning.

Heading back to the Ramp

When it was finally time to head back to the ramp, it would be a port beam reach west across the lake.  It seemed to take forever.  I felt like every boat on the lake passed me, and they may have.  As I approached the dock, I realized I couldn't head-up high enough to make it, and I would have little to no room to fall-off (remember the leeward marina mentioned before).  I had to do a 180 and try to head up wind far enough to allow me to approach the dock on a slight run.  To put this into perspective.  The land was blocking out a lot of the south wind.  Most of the time the wind around the dock was light to flukey, but occasionally strong gusts would come in.  I had reduced sail on my approach to the dock, and the boat wasn't happy with that arrangement.  Eventually I let more sail out; so that I could point further upwind.  Then reduced sail again and approach the dock on a slow run.

End of Journey

I coasted to the dock with sail furled to almost nothing.  I walked the boat counterclockwise around the dock by holding a bow painter in my left hand and stern painter in my right hand.  Debate how I'm going to make it 35 yards upwind to the ramp in flukey light winds with occasional strong gusts and no motor or yuloh mount, just the paddle that was okay drifting downwind, but I didn't have the confidence of making it upwind, and no way if I caught a strong gust.

While walking to get my trailer, I debated how I should retrieve this boat.  I backed the trailer down the ramp as close to the rocky jetty as I can get.  The wind seems to have just shifted enough to allow me to walk the boat with the bow and stern line (since the dock thing just went so well) across a little bridge with a jagged bottom to the rocky jetty next to the trailer.  It starts out well, past the jagged bridge, skirting past the rocky jetty, then the wind shifts again pushing my little boat toward the rock jetty.  I hustle down the big rocks just in time to prevent the loss of paint.  I push the boat towards the trailer.  I realize I am getting into some deeper water, hold on to the boat as it slides toward the trailer goal posts, which my neighbor welded the day before.  Will it make it to the trailer before the wind pushes us back?  Is it going between the goalposts?  Maybe, no, YES.  As it barely slides on the trailer, I stand in waste-deep water (the wallet in my pocket).

Crowds

Now for the kicker.  The little pond like shore between the ramp and the marina is lined with tents and people for some kind of fishing event.  I had been the crowd's entertainment.  This odd-looking man with a very odd-looking boat, which had no motor, and no fishing equipment.  As I stepped onto the trailer and attach the winch strap to the bow eye, this crowd of dozens of rednecks gives me a standing ovation with a round of applause.  My only thought was that I could have easily missed the goal posts (or what if there were no goal posts?) and the wind would have carried me across the water along the crowd (I possibly could have seen them exchange money from their wagers), me hanging from the side of the boat, not stopping until it landed at the marina.  I really need to make a yuloh mount.

Trailer and Transport

As the trailer is pulled up the ramp, the little boat manages to squat dab in the middle (Thank you Mike for such a nice trailer and boat), and is easily unrigged and trailed home.  Not a speck of paint was lost that day!!!