From: "dlb" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: A Paradox sighted in UK waters
Date: Sat, 19 Apr 2003 21:23:52 -0500

Congratulations on the launching ! cant wait to see the pictures.about the stability , I did the same thing in whisper, and I believe you could get the mast wet if you tried hard enough.

David


----- Original Message -----
From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>; <microcruising@yahoogroups.com>
Sent: Saturday, April 19, 2003 3:57 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] A Paradox sighted in UK waters

Yes, it is not a mirage. There really was a paradox floating in Poole Harbour this morning.

I launched Little Jim from the slip at Ridge Wharf boatyard on the river Frome off Poole Harbour at 11:30 this morning. It floats! It's watertight! It keeps bumping into things!!

The trailer was a success. With a few mods it could be well nigh perfect. The weather, however, was not cooperating. Yesterday was hot with a light wind, today was cold with a force 6 blowing.

I settled in on the pontoon and made a coffee while I got used to being afloat. Mostly it was as I expected it to be. One thing that was not was the stability. I stood on the deck, hung onto the mast and lent out. I have seen a picture of Don doing this with about 10 degrees of list. If Little Jim didn't reach 45 degrees it certainly felt like it had. The weather will have to be a lot warmer before I pursue that further.

Having finished my coffee I decided to try out the yuloh, as this is a form of propulsion that I am not familiar with. I cast off and headed for ..... the next berth along. The wind was about 45 degrees off the bow and try as I might the bow kept blowing off and I would end up dashing towards the end of a finger berth. Fortunately most of the berths were empty so no actual damage was done.

I entertained myself in this way for an hour or so. I didn't dare go out into the river as I couldn't be sure of getting back. Heading back to the slip wasn't too bad, with the wind on the port quarter I had better control. I think I will make a short tiller extension that can be operated with my leg, as I found coordinating sculling and steering was not easy when another pontoon was rapidly approaching.

I wondered if the cg is too far back, causing the bows to fall off all the time, but I don't want to adjust it till I have been under sail. (After I had lifted out I thought that I should have tried with the rudder up to see what effect that had.) I know where the cg is, 1.8 metres forward of the transom, but I am not sure where it *should* be.

Lifting out, the trailer performed well again, and all in all I am happy with the day. If the weather improves later in the week, as it is supposed to, I will try again.

Pictures to follow when the film is used up.

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
paradoxbuilders-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com

Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to http://docs.yahoo.com/info/terms/