From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Newbie, sails, Cedar Key Messabout
Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 08:37:28 -0400

Welcome aboard DC, your in for a treat when you see the plans, they are some of the most detailed I have come across. As for my sail, it was cut too flat. While sailing with Matt at Ft. Desoto before his start of the Everglades Challenge, I remember reaching along behind and slightly to leeward of Paradox and commenting to Matt how surprised I was at the fullness of his sail and his reply that he thought it could still use a little more draft. We sailed over to St. Pete so he could get some last min. supplies and both boats were very well matched reaching and running. The trip back was a beat. Matt put a butt kicking on me to windward that I won't soon forget. The really enlightening aspect of which was to see what a properly sailed Paradox can do. Another problem Matt noticed was that my yard was bowing slightly and as a result the sail needed a crescent shape at the top of perhaps 2 1/2 inches tall with the max height at the halyard attach point. It should be noted that Matt makes his own sails and then fiddles with them by cutting and re-cutting until he gets what he wants. His suggestion to me was that I do the same and I will probably take his advice and start learning how to make my own sails. 

We are all looking forward to your progress reports. With the launching of "Little Jim" there are now five Paradoxes afloat that I know of.

Has any one heard when the 2003 Cedar key messabout will take place? I believe it is the first weekend in May which would make it the 3rd and 4th this year. David Beard, is there any chance you could make it? I'm going to try my best to make it and hopefully we can get some more action shots for DC and the files. Lets hear from those who might make it to the messabout, as an incentive I will make "Zoe" available for those who need to try one on for size and test sails. Just get bake to me so I will know to expect you as most of the activity will be over on Atsena Otie Key if I'm not mistaken.

Tailwinds

Glen