From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 22 Apr 2003 19:41:05 -0000
Subject: Re: Newbie, sails, Cedar Key Messabout

Thanks so much for the welcome, Glen. I still haven't heard back from Dave regarding plans, but I'm not too worried about it. I hope that he and Mindy are fortunate enough to be enjoying Little Cruiser right now, but I suspect that they are likely enduring the grind instead. I've located just about all of the Paradox information on the web, so have been pouring over it like a thirteen-year-old with Dad's stack of Playboys.

It is apparent to me that the plans for Paradox have been intensely well thought out and executed. Most designs out there start with a designer's whim or a customer's fancy, while Paradox looks to have been drawn after an evolution of a single type, and then finally the construction and extensive usage (testing) of the prototype. Having designed a few boats in this manner myself, I have nothing but respect for the Paradox design.

I used to have a fairly large sprit sail which when subjected to anything over a light breeze, would start bending to the point where I would find a horrible wrinkle from head to clew. The sprit was made to the designer's scantlings and of perfect Sitka Spruce, but practical usage belied poor design. Paradox seems to be a more refined design, and the fact that Matt is still sailing her speaks volumes. I'm wondering if your yard is actively bowing, or if it is bowed always. I'm sure that you have probably contemplated the problem of whether to build a better yard vs building the sail to suit the yard. I suppose that if you look at your yard as an experimental one until the sail plan is perfected, you may be able to see some benefit from a few good strands of Kevlar/epoxy on the upper surface which would be in tension when in use. Then again, if you were to modify your existing sail, it would seem to be an easy solution to fit the sail to the bowed yard. Hell, that alone might prove significantly beneficial to your lack of fullness.

I have found the best accessory for my sewing machine to be several, sharp seam rippers. My seams may not be too pretty, but they'll get the job done. Sort of like the old adage, "if you can't tie knots, tie lots". My sailmaking ability is best suited for templates! HA!

Something I've been wondering.... why is Al always hoping for calm nights?

DC