From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
Date: 28 Feb 2018 09:39:23 +0000
Subject: Re: Port Macquarie to Lord Howe Island

This question comes up again and again. Why? I can't speak for others, but the fantasy of ocean sailing seems so attractive from your armchair. The reality is quite different. The furtherest I've been is 25 nautical miles averaging about 7 miles offshore which took 13 hours. It was slow, boring, lonely, and to be frank, nothing like what I had imagined. If you're sea-sick it's awful. I was sailing in benign conditions too. If it was rough a Paradox would be like a washing machine!  Things to consider... your AVERAGE speed will be 2.5 knots (yes, just 2.5 knots, a Paradox is a tiny boat. Strong ocean currents will move faster than you can sail), a tiller pilot is MANDATORY, your boat would have to be packed with food to last you twice as long as you thought the trip will take which with a Paradox could take between 7 and 14 days. Cooking would be a real mission, because the boat moves around so much and if you had to spend any length of time with the hatch closed, it would be like living in a coffin. And now, for me, one of the most serious short-comings of the boat for ocean travel... gear failure. If something goes wrong with the rig, you need to fix it by climbing over the hatch and sitting on the hatch top. With your weight up there a Paradox becomes very unstable. I can't even begin to imagine what it would be like in anything but a mill-pond trying to fix a problem with the mast or vent box blocks.

I've often thought the best plan before actually attempting to sail anywhere distant would be to set yourself the challenge of sailing 50 miles directly offshore to a GPS waypoint you've set up beforehand and then turn around and sail back. That's 100 miles, but by the time you take into account tacking and drift you could easily end up sailing 150 miles, which would take between 2 to 4 days. That should be a short enough time to guarantee you a decent weather window, so you're not putting yourself at too much risk. I'm confident that after such a journey you will be much more certain about whether ocean voyaging is for you or not and if it is you might also determine that something a bit longer than a Paradox might be more suitable.

Cheers,

Rob.