From: =?iso-8859-1?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2018 11:38:10 -0400
Subject: Re: [paradoxbuilders] Making up the bed


Hi Rob and other Paradox friends,

Rob wrote:

"The biggest hassle of all though is making up the bed and putting it away again with the hatch closed. I have to move so much gear around backwards and forwards from the state-room that I'm ready for that lie-down, despite not being tired beforehand!"

After long cruising trips, I finally solved that problem in both my Gorfniks and in the Paradox. I use an Exped down mat as a bed and keep it inflated, even when I put it away in the forward hatch. Extra flotation, I figure. Here's my process to put the bed away: simply take the inflated down mat, with the sleeping bag and pillow on it, grabbing it all together by the middle, and shove the end of the mat and the end of the sleeping bag into the forward compartment until it touches the end. I do not have to go forward to do this. Then I just fold the mattress in half (sleeping bag and pillow still on it) and stuff the other end into the forward state room where it wedges at the top because of the air in it which wants to get it to unfold. Done. To invert the process, I just pull the top end of the mattress and pull it back. 15 seconds to sleeping mode or to take a nap.

If I need to go into the forward compartment to get some gear on the port side or underneath, I simply pull out the bed and it is then more comfortable to go forward on top of the bed without scraping my knees on the hard floor.

I also carry a small cooler which I like to use as a table when I eat and to carry fruit and beverages during the day. This cooler is wedged underneath the part of the mattress which sticks out of the forward compartment and the mattress actually keeps it in place.

I sleep on the starboard side of the boat where there is more space besides the air hole box. My bike is at forward port side, and my day pack with quick clothing is at near port side. I do not have shelving on starboard side, just a small gear hammock where I keep clothing and bug netting. This gives more sleeping room.

Hope this helps.

André-François