From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: (Son of) Little Jim (II, the sequel)
Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 11:19:28 -0000

Hey, thanks for the great replay of your Tuesday sail, Al. Your post will be added to Glen's "Builder's Encouragement" (#793), as the best RAH-RAH posts. I could almost feel your experience. Again, congratulations on your recent launch.

I've used the old "inverted flowerpot on the stove" routine to great success, but it always leaves me feeling a little nervous that I may find the hot pot visiting the nether reaches of the interior. When my wife and I lived aboard our little 20' canoe yawl, we also used our gimballed kerosene lamp as a heat source when the temps were mild and we were underway. I wonder if a such a lamp would be practical aboard a Paradox, or just an imposing novelty? 

I hope to have my boat ready for fall/winter of this year, when I would like to explore the lower Columbia river on the border of Oregon and Washington. I expect that it will be cold and that I can put the qualities of the pilothouse to good use. Are there any locations aboard the paradox design that just jumps out as a candidate for a small gimballed lamp? Perhaps it would be better to just plan on fashioning a chain bridle to secure a flowerpot on the gimballed stove? Any ideas besides the obvious wool sweater? 

I couldn't really tell you where to put telltales on your sail, as I've never used them on a lugsail. As a general rule, I would think that you could ease your sheet until the luff just begins to flutter, or the belly just begins to luff. Also, your problems coming through the wind may have more to do with having your sheet a little too tight (most folks are consistently sheeted in too much). You may try getting into the habit of regularly easing the sheet until you see the luff flutter or the belly luff and then sheet in just enough to firm the sail. Before you tack, do this to assure that your sail is fully powered rather than stalled.  

Looking forward to viewing your photos!

DC