From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Sprit rig adventures
Date: 06 Jul 2018 05:19:04 +0000

I've been playing around with a sprit rig for a while now. My latest video about it is here. https://youtu.be/6YHvGBe5kLA It's taken a while to get to this point and no doubt as time goes on I'll learn new things, but all in all, I'm happy with it. Four things that come up frequently on this list with the standing lug are:

1. Difficulty tacking from starboard to port tack. I no longer have those problems.
2. Excessive force required to get the roller reefing to operate. I deformed my block's cheeks, due to the forces I was applying! The snotters require some force, but nothing like what I experienced with roller reefing.
3. Chinese gybing. That can't happen with a sprit boom, so gybing is no longer a concern.
4. Poor pointing ability, because the lug rig is low peaked and prone to leach hooking, as the only way to maintain leach tension is via the sheet. The sprit boom, the yard and the luff attached to the mast all result in a more aerodynamic shape and I'm getting fantastic performance, particularly in light air.

I think there's just one area that the standing lug is better. In very strong conditions... it will continue to progress to windward on port tack (yard pressing against the mast) when partially reefed (it won't sail to windward at all on starboard tack as the luff bows very badly when hanging away from the mast). By then, the sprit rig will have been scandalised and will do no better than a beam reach, which can only be achieved after building up some boat speed downwind, because when scandalised the CoE moves forward a lot.

I've only been in strong winds three times with the sprit rig (and only once with the lug rig, but that experience, which included Chinese gybes and being able to progress to windward on port tack only was why I've changed to the sprit rig) and just the once have I scandalised it correctly, so there's still further learning required.

Cheers,
Rob.