From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
Date: Tue, 24 Jul 2018 09:06:50 +0930
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Sprit rig adventures

I have a torqueedo on mine , a 2003 traveller model
It's great in calm water , but if it gets rough at sea the motor is easily damaged
I swapped mine out for a Honda BF2.3 , I carry extra gas in camping fuel stove bottles , they are perfect for the tank refill amount . All being around the 750 ml to one litre in capacity .

I won't go offshore with the torqueedo , the motor can be flooded by catching fishing line around the propellor , the seal between the shaft and motor can be ruined by fishing line , the casing on the battery is weak and brittle , mine needed replacing after a bump , the stainless steel lock up pin , to hold the motor up when not in use , damages the aluminium housing it sits into , on a rough day my motor was damaged by this pounding it's way into the casing , then bending to get jammed In-between the casing and the motor mounts , rendering the motor useless .

Great product on a lake river or estuary
Don't rely on it in bad weather off shore on even coastal cruising
Solar charging is available too , at a cost , or if you look up the specs you can easily make your own .

Nick

---
On 24 Jul 2018, at 7:28 AM, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

There we go!  I knew some of you had to be up to something.  Great overheads and stills, Pete. The English country-side and rivers look so idyllic in summer.

A few questions:

1. Is the mast crutch set-up for a boom tent arrangement?
2. I'm guessing you went ashore for the shower and toilet?  Toileting is something we never mention, but it is an issue. I've only been far enough offshore once to bucket and chuck it.  The rest of the time I hold on or if I must, it's into a sealed container (which only has the capacity to be used once!) that I empty into a toilet on shore.
3. Are the solar panels for the Torqueedo? I notice that it changes to a Tohatsu in later pictures. Did the Torqueedo not make the cut?

This is all very inspiring!  Even my wife is looking at these pictures and saying what about buying an old fiberglass river cruiser when we visit the UK?

Thanks for sharing,

Rob.