From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 23 Jul 2018 22:50:29 -0400
Subject: Sailing in extreme heat

Extremely rare event for Qu=E9bec, I sailed and camped my Paradox on a short trip this week in extreme heat, saw 40 degrees Celsius on the thermometer (104 Fahrenheit).  I think I would have melted if it were not for my silver umbrella/sunbrella.  The sunbrella is always out when the sun is hot. I use a Birdiepal outdoor umbrella, expensive but worth it since it can handle all winds without breakage.  It also rained for quite a while during this heat, and I could keep sailing with the hatch halfway open and the umbrella over my head.  For me, impossible to sail from inside in that kind of heat.  Even had to stop sailing several times to jump overboard for a quick dip.  The swim step really works well to climb back aboard. 

Nick, there are so many biting insects here it would be torture to camp out without a bug net.  On my boats, I applied self gluing female velcro around the hatch and around the vent hole (female velcro does not stick to anything unlike the male velcro with the hooks).  I have netting with male (hooks) non-gluing velcro sewed around the edges.  One thing I added as an afterthought is a lengthwise zipper in the middle of the hatch netting.  This permits opening and closing the hatch through the zippered opening instead of having to rip off the velcro and line it up again afterwards, which is too slow when it starts raining all of a sudden and also lets too many mosquitoes in.

With the netting on and the hatch wide open, it's like sleeping outdoors, so heat is tolerable. I also have a Fan-tastic Endless Breeze fan for the worst days, when it is hot it is also sunny and my 50 watt solar panel recharges the car battery the next day.  I hang this fan from the ceiling over the entrance of the vent hole. Usually it is only needed for the first couple of hours, then the night cools down enough to do without.  A whole night of fan use gets the battery down to 60% or so, not too bad.

Off on another two-Paradox  trip this week, if all goes according to plan. Supposedly this heat wave of 30 degree plus weather will continue.  For a Canadian, this is really way too hot!  I might have more to say after this 'ordeal'.  :)

Hope this helps.

Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois