From: Peter Martin <paradoxpete.pdm@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Sprit rig adventures
Date: Sat, 28 Jul 2018 23:17:09 +0100


Sorry for the delay in replying. I've been busy in the sunshine...
Answers below.


1. Is the mast crutch set-up for a boom tent arrangement?

This trip was all a bit experimental. Yes that was the original idea, but primarily to keep the mast out of the way when yulohing. It didn't work as planned. It was too low down and got in the way, and it worked just as well when stowed on the side deck with the boom/yard. That is where it ended up.
The boom tent failed too and I ended up using a broley for the one day we had rain.
Here's pictures of  the overnight stops.
https://photos.app.goo.gl/1eCfz22ZFrHX7Fqb6
The crutch was however useful for hanging up my washing.


2. I'm guessing you went ashore for the shower and toilet?  Toileting is something we never mention, but it is an issue. I've only been far enough offshore once to bucket and chuck it.  The rest of the time I hold on or if I must, it's into a sealed container (which only has the capacity to be used once!) that I empty into a toilet on shore.

Yes I was mostly made use of facilities ashore, but not all the time.
Several nights had no facilities nearby. Showers were taken when available, but I also carried a solar shower (a black bag you hang in the sun) and I used it 3 times and worked really well.
Toilet was different. As part of the experiment, I had equipment  (a bucket and sawdust/pet bedding) to make a composting toilet setup. This is used in conjunction with a urine seperator (a plastic comfort bottle) to ensure liquids and solids stay seperate. The liquid is easily disposed of, the solids should "keep" for months quietly composting. This method means there is no liquid effluent or smell and there is little chance of spillage or leakage.. The small scale setup proved that it's a very viable option for long term cruising (which is why I wanted to try it). Previously however I use a similar method, keeping wet and dry separate, but bagging single session solids in a doggy bag, and storing until I see a convenient doggy bin disposal bin (of which there are plenty on shore). You can't store the bags long term however as without air, the sealed bag would quickly become very smelly.
Composting is very popular now on the inland waterways and with the camper van crowd, with no smelly holding tanks, pumpouts and chemicals required.


3. Are the solar panels for the Torqueedo? I notice that it changes to a Tohatsu in later pictures. Did the Torqueedo not make the cut?

This was the "Grand experiment".  The idea was to be totally off grid, and do the entire trip by human or solar. I had 100W of solar, and a 80Ah battery.
The motor is a cheap 40lb thrust trolling motor. On the way down stream (the first 65 miles), I only used the motor to go in and out of locks for convenience, and occasional bursts to make a drink or to help on the bends of the meandering river when there was a strong cross wind. With the motor running at slow speed, and doing about 3 Knots, I was drawing about 10-12 Amps. In the midday sun I was generating a steady 6Amps form the solar panels. I never came close to even depleting half my available power capacity.
The problem came the second week. On day 4 of the cruise, there were torrential thunderstorms over most of the country. This amounted to several inches of rain in a few hours and lead to local flooding in many places. All this water made it's way into the river...
I was moored on the river bank the night of the storms, and my mooring ropes were made fast to tree branches about a foot above water. I was also aground on a muddy bank. In the morning I was afloat about 6 feet from the shore, and the mooring warps were now a foot under water...
Needless to say the river was now running very fast, and downstream it was really just a question of trying to maintain control and steerage.
The River authority have warning "boards" they put out when the stream increases. Amber boards are a warning of a fast stream, and Red boards advice you to stay off the water.
From that day, until the penultimate day of my cruise, there were either amber or red boards in position on the majority of the route.
[image: image.png]
Knowing that, I arranged for my daughter to deliver to me, my 2.5HP Suzuki engine. It was duly delivered, but as I had no intention of using it, and it had not been run or tested recently, it refused to start!
A colleague however offered the loan of his Tohatsu, in case I needed it.
I made a test trip back up stream on day 7. It was impossible to make any progress with Yuloh alone. With the motor at full power, and drawing about 25A, I could crawl along at about half to one mile an hour.
This was however on wide part of the river where the flow was less than the restricted narrower areas, particularly at the locks and weirs. I knew that it would be impossible to navigate some of the locks using electric only.
That is why the Tohatsu ended up on the outboard bracket and was used. ( I burnt about 1 Gallon of fuel in the end). I still yulohed where possible, and as I got further upstream reverted to the electric, stowing the Tohatsu below during the day.
In Oxford I met a few couples on narrow boats who had been unable to move their boats for over a week because of the stream, and they had big powerful diesel engines. I witnessed a narrow boat getting swept sideways onto a bridge, and another losing control coming downstream approaching a lock and getting wedged sideways across the lock entrance.
On the last day I had very strong headwinds, and the electric was only just adequate for me to keep steerage. There were a few times I was close to being out of control..
All in all the electric/yuloh option worked well, but not against the strong flow or headwinds. A more powerful motor would help, but with it goes a greater charging capacity requirement.
I think, if I was to do a long canal cruise (on the canals) this setup would be fine. Other than that, it's still hard to beat a small IC engine which is easily refueled instantly too.


More pictures:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/LAtyKZjTbuj8ogBf6
Yes, that would be very doable. Keep your eye on Apollo duck and I'm sure you could pick something up cheap, and resell at the end.
https://www.apolloduck.com/private.phtml?view=1&amp;layout=1&amp;cid=1&amp;scid=190&amp;fx=GBP&amp;minv=&amp;maxv=5000&amp;minl=0&amp;maxl=0&amp;ymin=&amp;ymax=&amp;type=1&amp;sort=0&amp;rid=aa&amp;limit=10

Cheers
PP