From: greatketch33@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: yuloh update
Date: 20 Aug 2018 05:57:28 -0700


Hello All,

I tested my yuloh yesterday inside the marina where no wind or waves could interfere with my tests. The results were very satisfactory.

History
-------
Don Elliott's Paradox was sold to me by Wanda, and it was missing the yuloh. I needed to fabricate one, and after thinking about it for 6 months, I happened to acquire the wood and meet someone who had fabricated canoe and kayak paddles. Bill, my new friend who had never heard of a yuloh was eager to learn with me as we endeavored to create a yuloh.

Yuloh Build
------------
Steamed 12 foot spruce into shape and laminated two boards together in the homemade jig. Bill performed the shaping of the yuloh and I performed the epoxy seal, primer, and two part paint. Our yuloh was slightly longer than the original plans, and was able to fit in stowage on the port deck without overhanging the toe rail. The Yuloh has a bend at the 1/3 area of the entire length of the oar at the handle side. Laid upon a horizontal surface the handle rises from the surface approximately 6 inches: Yuloh is placed on surface upside down.

Yuloh Test
-----------
I needed to create the socket of the fulcrum point and wanted to get a feel for where I would want the socket. Andre Francois, suggested adding another socket 6 inches from the original for what he termed "over drive mode." For the moment, I am looking to create one for learning before setting this cool overdrive position of the socket.

After placing the paradox in the water and standing in position to simulate yuloh technique I estimated the position of my socket. I then measured where the socket was defined based on the Paradox Plans; I was within three inches of the measurement. I drilled a hole in the location of my choice and performed a test to yuloh.

Yuloh Technique
---------------
At first I was doing it incorrectly, I seemed to be moving the yuloh in a way where I was favoring the bottom side of the paddle to push water. The yuloh constantly popped off the ball rod located on the transom. I thought this technique was very difficult to perform. After several attempts of going nowhere, I thought that perhaps I should be pushing water from the topside of the yuloh. Once I changed the angle of the paddle to favor the topside of the blade the paradox took off. The audience, who had gathered around the marina to investigate the boat and a paddle for which they have never seen, applauded my success.

Next step
----------
Epoxy inside of socket, place rubber hose to help hold socket to ball of rod and test again. Practice the yuloh technique. Rig the boat with a sail and test it out sailing.

I expect to have picture of the yuloh posted after I complete the socket work. More to follow.

Fair winds,

Deric
"The Edge"