From: =?windows-1252?Q?Andr=E9-Fran=E7ois_Bourbeau?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2018 07:13:06 -0400
Subject: Yuloh Efficiency on Paradox

Hi Deric,

To me, the efficiency of the yuloh on the Paradox is one of the highlights of the boat. Personally, I would never imagine putting a motor on it (sorry, don't want to get into a discussion about this) because if I did, the boat would lose all of its charm and attraction when I stop somewhere. "You came all that way without a motor? Come on in for a beer". Besides, if I'm going to go to the trouble of motoring and dealing with gasoline (yech!), I'm going to use a bigger boat. I own a 26-foot Norwalk Island Sharpie with a motor on it; it feels exactly like a huge Paradox. I use it as a social boat, the motor is necessary because of the boat's size and especially because passenger friends always have time constraints. I don't.

To me, the size of the Paradox hits that sweet spot where it can be handled in all situations without a motor, thanks to the yuloh. Current over two knots without wind is the only thing that will stop it, then I have to wait for wind, like in the old days. This is what makes sailing, well, sailing. True contact with nature.

As you know, I own two Paradoxes, one of which I lend to my friends so I can sail in company. They all freak out at first when trying to use the yuloh, they just can't get anywhere. Normal. I come from a canoeing background; the yuloh movement is identical to reverse feathering in a canoe where we use a figure eight movement to slip it sideways away from the paddle. Takes a long time to learn that stroke in the canoe as well; it's the hardest move in the canoeing course which I taught for years.

Do not expect to learn to use the yuloh in one day. It takes many, many days of practice before it becomes second nature and you stop thinking about what you are doing. But once you get it down, wow, the boat really flies. Onlookers have this look on their face when they watch the effortless way in which the boat speeds away from the dock. And how it curves to get back into a slip. "Man, that thing really moves!"

Some tips: a one-inch long rubber hose epoxied around the pivot hole really helps hold the yuloh in place when you let go of the pressure on the blade. When there is no pressure on the blade, the yuloh wants to float (it is wood after all), and then it is difficult to get going again, especially since the boat is still moving forward and preventing the yuloh's blade from re-entering the flowing water. When the yuloh slips out of the pivot, you have to wait until the boat slows down before starting up again. If you flip the yuloh so it enters the water sideways, you don't have to wait for a complete stop.

Overdrive mode is important; it's a second pivot hole 6 inches nearer the handle than on the plans. I don't use the old position anymore; it's too slow, not enough power. But it's also harder to learn because the angle is different, start by learning in the standard position. But do build in that second hole.

To learn to yuloh, the rudder has to be in the up position! You know you've graduated when you can yuloh around in a tight circle both clockwise and counterclockwise without the rudder. Like I said, it's not easy, don't expect to be able to this on your first time out!

In fact, I've had to install a stand-up paddle besides the yuloh on my loaner Paradox. The learning curve is just too great, even with instructions. And the paddle also moves the boat adequately, if not as elegantly.

I remember several years ago on a 5-week trip in Florida, plagued with a bad tennis elbow, I had to learn to yuloh with my left hand. It took several hours of cursing before I got the hang of it, especially since the pivot is on the wrong side of the boat for lefties and compounds the difficulty. After 12 hours of yulohing, I was just starting to get somewhat comfortable, felt like a beginner all over again. Still can't say I've mastered the left-handed movement, I keep practicing though because a change is as good as a rest.

Yulohing is an art well worth learning. What a charm feeling that Paradox lurches forward with every stroke!

Have a great day!

André-François