From: Marc Tamayo <marcisawesome595@gmail.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stability
Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2018 12:04:39 -0400

I grew up sailing 25 ft daysailers in Miami every summer. A favorite past
time was throwing a line out the stern, jumping off and being pulled behind
the boat. Of course the skipper would then set a course for the nearest and
largest patch of seaweed much to the chagrin of the guy in the water. There
were a few baiting suit bottoms lost but never any bloodied hands. And it
was relatively easy for a moderately fit person to pull themselves back to
the boat even without slowing her down.

Cheers.

From: Selby John Starkie <john.starkie@talk21.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stability
Date: Thu, Aug 23, 2018 at 11:48 AM

I love the idea of the floating rope,  trailed behind.

I assume this is for the MOB to grab as the boat sails away.

Let's suppose you recover from the cold water shock in about 10seconds.
At 4 knots (2.06m/second) the boat will have sailed 20.6 metres.
Let's say it takes another 10seconds to orientate yourself,  and swim
toward the trailing rope.
The boat has now sailed 40metres,  so the rope needs to be,  say,  100m
long (at least).

You now grab the passing rope with wet hands.
How much skin do you expect to have left on your palms?
(This is testable.   Get someone in a car to pull a trailing rope at
4knots (4.6mph) and grab it with your bare hands)

You now need to pull yourself (with your raw,  bleeding hands) along the
rope against a 4knot wall of water,  in your face,  for between 40 and
100metres.
(This,  too,  is testable)

Invigorated by the cold and the adrenaline,  you now climb back into your
boat.

I don't intend ever to test this,  but,  if someone does,  could you
report back?   Please?

Best wishes,

John <http://cambridgeschoolofnavigation.co.uk/>

From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Safety at Sea
Date: Wed, 22 Aug 2018 22:51:01 -0400

On the topic of stability I think safety in general needs some air time too .
I see in various posts people talk of harnesses and life jackets in their
boats
I wonder what Paradox sailors have to say on safety at sea
Perhaps it's a worthwhile thread ?

I have a life jacket on the whole time at sea , the collar of the jacket
is large and while it's designed to keep my head above water if I'm
unconscious it's everyday use is as a pillow , it's comfortable and so no
bother at all .
I'm tied in rough weather to a point inside the boat , and off shore I
have a floating rope trailing behind
It's water ski rope , bright yellow and it stays on the surface , it's
drag is very very small

I have to , by law carry a survival beacon on the boat
I have a second one sewn into my jacket , It is small and unobtrusive , it
seems to be illegal  with just the one on my jacket , the requirement for "
the boat " to hold a beacon is firm .

I've read books on gaff rigged boats and in one they say an old adage in a
gaff rig was , in bad weather ", to reef hard and reef early " . I leave
port with less than full sail each trip where it's windy , or gusty .

What other gems are out there for us to share

Nick

Sent from my iPad

From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stability
Date: Mon, 20 Aug 2018 17:30:59 -0400

At 7 knots, I'm not surprised you were having a hard time controlling
her!  Phew, that's way over hull speed.

Could it be that a Paradox's chine runners at high speed result in large
vortices, that pull the boat from side to side? I've noticed that yulohing
takes far more energy than I would expect at 2+ knots, which I've concluded
is coming from the chine runners. When running down swells, my previous
boat would take off, leaving a large wake as she started to surf. My
Paradox doesn't do that. Instead, she starts rolling from side to side and
once you straighten up, she slows down quickly.

My thinking, is that if one chine runner is down and the other up, the
deep chine runner's vortice drags the boat to that side, then detaches as
the boat slews, buoyancy forces the boat upright, inertia keeps the roll
going and then the other chine runner takes over, since downwind rolling
and slewing tends to increase unless you actively stop it.

So, I think we're back to Andre's solution, reduce sail as much as
possible going downwind, otherwise it's going to be uncomfortable, very
hard work and you're going to arrive at your destination physically
exhausted, yet hardly any sooner than if you'd reduced sail to begin with.

But, in your case, Nick, happy as a clam!