From: Selby John Starkie <john.starkie@talk21.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Stability
Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2018 17:24:23 +0100

This is good news!
Circumstantial evidence,  but a good start.
Best wishes,
John


On Thu, Aug 23, 2018 at 11:48 AM Selby John Starkie <john.starkie@talk21.com> wrote:
I love the idea of the floating rope,  trailed behind.
I assume this is for the MOB to grab as the boat sails away.
Let's suppose you recover from the cold water shock in about 10seconds.
At 4 knots (2.06m/second) the boat will have sailed 20.6 metres.
Let's say it takes another 10seconds to orientate yourself,  and swim toward the trailing rope.
The boat has now sailed 40metres,  so the rope needs to be,  say,  100m long (at least).
You now grab the passing rope with wet hands.
How much skin do you expect to have left on your palms?
(this is testable.   Get someone in a car to pull a trailing rope at 4knots (4.6mph) and grab it with your bare hands)
You now need to pull yourself (with your raw,  bleeding hands) along the rope against a 4knot wall of water,  in your face,  for between 40 and 100metres.
(This,  too,  is testable)
Invigorated by the cold and the adrenaline,  you now climb back into your boat.
I don't intend ever to test this,  but,  if someone does,  could you report back?   Please?
Best wishes,
John
 

On 20 Aug 2018, at 8:30 PM, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

At 7 knots, I'm not surprised you were having a hard time controlling her!  Phew, that's way over hull speed.

Could it be that a Paradox's chine runners at high speed result in large vortices, that pull the boat from side to side? I've noticed that yulohing takes far more energy than I would expect at 2+ knots, which I've concluded is coming from the chine runners. When running down swells, my previous boat would take off, leaving a large wake as she started to surf. My Paradox doesn't do that. Instead, she starts rolling from side to side and once you straighten up, she slows down quickly.

My thinking, is that if one chine runner is down and the other up, the deep chine runner's vortice drags the boat to that side, then detaches as the boat slews, buoyancy forces the boat upright, inertia keeps the roll going and then the other chine runner takes over, since downwind rolling and slewing tends to increase unless you actively stop it.

So, I think we're back to Andre's solution, reduce sail as much as possible going downwind, otherwise it's going to be uncomfortable, very hard work and you're going to arrive at your destination physically exhausted, yet hardly any sooner than if you'd reduced sail to begin with.

But, in your case, Nick, happy as a clam!