From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 28 Aug 2018 08:20:02 +0930
Subject: Re: Water Tanks: First Time Use

I had a custom made plastic tank built
It was slow to fill and I insist on emptying it before refill , I use a drill powers pump to empty it
I use a watch and time it to see how many litres per minute it's filling a bucket
Then I abandon it till about the time I calculate it will be full
It needs to be full and it needs to be clean
I removed the tank and tried bottled water .
I used bottled water for two trips and it's a bother
The bottles roll about a bit and do not provide any where near the volume of a tank and pumping from the tank is a whole lot easier than lifting the floor ( after you've cleared the floor ) and replacing the floor again .
At very high angles on very windy days I can get a bit of water come out of the filler pipes , but that's a design fault , and only when the boat is near on its beam ends .

From: greatketch33@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2018 22:52:59 -0000 (UTC)
Subject: Water Tanks: First Time Use

Hello Paradoxians,

I have been reading through past posts about water tanks and associated topics.

I sailed my paradox for the first time this past weekend, and I had a great time in learning much about the boat. In order to prepare for the sail, I filled the water tanks with water from a spigot at a marina; super easy.

Don Elliott built the boat I own. He used four (4) inch inspection places for each of the water tanks, and he mentioned that Wanda could place her arm through the hatch and reach all areas of the tank. I was unable. Perhaps five (5) or 6 inch plate would be better for my size. In addition to the deck plates, Don had clear hoses connected to each tank – possibly for filling and removing water from the tanks.

It is possible that these clear tubes extended to openings located on the deck in order to fill the tanks – rain water or other – yet the deck has no placement of filler openings. Moreover, the toe rail is split to allow water to drain off the deck rather than direct water to any opening; therefore, I believe these hoses were to be used as filler and removal. It is a matter of finding adapters and an appropriate pump.

How did I add and remove water this past weekend?

Adding water: used garden hose and filled after removing the four (4) inch inspection ports. Very easy when there is a garden hose with water pressure available. Adding water using sea water more of a challenge at this point in time.

Removing water:  used a Rule centrifugal pump to remove 80 percent of the water from the tank, I then used a rag repeatedly to remove the remaining water squeezing out into each bucket. The process took a very long time. It would be better if I had something that could syphon the water from the filler hoses. I will also need to get a pump to connect to the hoses to fill the water in the tanks as well.

Other alternatives:  Some folks chose to use water bottles that are used for drinking water and then refilled with sea water to maintain ballast, others have used bricks, and one owner chose to use batteries. I am learning as each of has gone through the process about ballast.

Always looking to hear from others. Very glad that there is much said on topic already in the posts of the past. Just wanted to share my first experience using the water tanks.

Fairwinds,

Deric

PSV/ The Edge