From: greatketch33@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Being on the Edge
Date: 29 Aug 2018 18:15:17 +0000


This past weekend, I launched my paradox, “The Edge,” formally named and owned by the late Don Elliott.

After sculling with the home made yuloh, and learning to do so as I traversed the calm waters out of the marina, I was pleased to see signs of respect from several extremely large motor boats. These motor boats who are part of my marina’s community, with their three-story size and several large engines held their gate as to not cause a wake nor run me down. I was very pleased by their composure, and I acknowledged them with a wave of gratitude.

After positioning myself in safe waters I was ready to hoist the sail. I remembered my friend Andre Francois telling me that furling and unfurling is easier on a starboard tack, and so I raised the sail and with satisfaction knowing my friend’s advice had much value. The sail filled and “The Edge” made way in winds shy of 10; off shore breeze feathered shallow ripples of waves, and so it was easy sailing. "The Edge" made several impressions upon onlookers who showed their curious behavior as they sailed or motored around her; passing in front, along the side, and in some cases following. Steady gentle wind and waves, with kind courteous people on the their boats.

We sailed on all points, reefed and changed the size of the sail to accommodate different settings and to experiment. I shifted my body inside the cabin to get a feel for the way “The Edge” handled different points of sail. I was very impressed with the level of comfort she afforded me. Regardless of my position in the boat, the point of sail, and the speed of wind, the boat expressed information as to the type of response and behavior I should perform. Trimming sail, ballast, and headings were all in play accordingly.

It was approximately 90 minutes after I had exited the marina when the winds playfully gusted upward toward 15. I had no reason to panic for this tiny boat behaved like a larger, and may I say, deep-keel boat. She would heel and her chine runner gripped into the waters holding her steadfast on point. The gentle waves of the earlier hours had grown into larger lashing fingers as they probed and jabbed the hull.

Deeper out in the lake, and with increased frequency, fast moving motorboats would cut across ahead of us, perhaps, to impress our diminished attributes with their over exercised and guzzling motors, or perhaps to educate us about the conveniences of motors as it relates to time. It mattered none, for “The Edge” like a knife slicing through soft butter performed splicingly well into the wakes of the impressers.

I wondered about the thoughts of others who had noticed this unusual boat with only a head glancing about from the cabin. I decided to sit on the floor and close the hatch to get a feel of sailing inside. Then I wondered if others thought the boat had a life of its own. They wouldn’t see anyone in the cockpit or at a familiar helm. It would appear that the boat was moving on its on accord. But, I knew, “The Edge” did have a life of its own; whereas, it had been quietly waiting for several years in a field waiting to be called out to sea, she now at this moment had been set loose to run with the wind – free in her natural habitat.

P.S - New photo of The Edge on her first time out after a long sleep has been posted for your convenience and enjoyment.

Fairwinds,

Deric
psv/The Edge