From: greatketch33@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 04 Sep 2018 14:32:09 +0000
Subject: Re: yuloh update 

Yuloh Update 3:

After making a second socket approximately 8 inches toward the handle I tested the yuloh this past weekend. The change made a huge improvement; it was easier to yuloh without the oar popping off the ball head of the pin, it provided more power with each stroke, and steering the boat had improved.

I was able to yuloh a half a mile in a navigation channel off the lake and part of the Erie Canal waterway located in New York State, US. There were many motor boats along the dockage (walls) that lined the entrance of the canal. Many onlookers stared and gazed as I yulohed – (new verb) -- with effectiveness darting between oncoming boat traffic and those coming to tie up to the wall or, perhaps to disembark.

Some folks commented during my yuloh passage and I was surprised to hear their shouts; “What country are you from?” or “Where is your motor?” Why don’t you buy an electric motor?” Some other comments were the kind of, “Man, you are crazy paddling that tiny boat in this channel?” “I feel bad for you because you must be tired doing all that paddling.” The classic shout out I heard was “I never saw a dinghy like that, where is your cruiser?”

Well, I felt so much more confident about my yuloh technique; much was dependent on the placement of the socket and practice. And so, I yulohed to a spot between two large mega yachts. These yacht owners watched with amusement as I navigated with ease to the side of the wall with one monstrosity at my bow, and the other gleaming down at my stern. Nonetheless, their owners offered to help. I passed them lines to fasten to onshore cleats. They asked how deep my keel was, and where I came from and their friendly curiosity was met with fantastical amusing responses: well I said, “I came from the other side of the lake some 23 miles, yulohing all the way, so it was important I found a spot on this wall to tie up.” They looked at me with surprise followed by mostly disbelief. I didn’t blame them. They were friendly and with the entertainment I provided climbing up the wall to get on shore was a free additional bonus. Most folks jump down off their boats to get on the shore.

I thanked the yachters for their help, and asked when they thought they would be departing. They indicated two days from now. I kindly requested that they do not use my paradox as a fender should they decide to depart earlier; and they laughed and said they would be sure to protect the tiny boat. – I was really worried about the yuloh that I made with my friend Bill – I would hate to see that get all splintered.

The next day I departed the wall and yulohed out to the lake, this time moving with a slight current. If you can yuloh with the current it is much better. Out in the lake, the wind was static; hence, no wind. I thought about yuloh sailing. I have seen and felt the advantages of motor sailing, so I wanted to try yuloh sailing. I raised the sail and on a starboard tack, again with no wind, I yulohed toward my destination. Although I couldn’t detect a significant measure in the boat speed I did benefit from the shade the sail afforded me. I had hoped that yulohing would have created a slight lift upon the sail to give me a .000347 improvement in speed. Alas, I had not the tools to measure the effect.

For those who have a yuloh or will fabricate one, I encourage experimenting where the socket for the yuloh is placed. As Andre Francois has suggested in past posts, the socket can be moved further to the handle, which he calls “overdrive mode.” I understand his point on that matter, and it worked for me. When the winds are down, and you want to do something to keep moving, give that yuloh the attention it was designed to perform.

Fairwinds,

Deric

PSV / The Edge