From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 5 Sep 2018 13:03:53 +0930
Subject: Re: Water Tanks: First Time Use

I have a plastic tank, made for the bilges in my Paradox. After nearly three years I removed it and substituted it with bottles. I like the idea of refilling the bottles as they were emptied, it was a failure, not enough ballast in the bottles. I added lead shot in bags to keep the weight. Water bottles take up too much space in between them, where I get 70 litres in the tank and 44 litres in 2 litre bottles. The tank and pump are back in now.

I took out the tank fittings while it was out of the boat and inspected the tank and it's really clean. The secret might be that NO light can get into the tank so no mould etc. can grow.

I have a camper trailer with an 80-litre tank hidden from the sunlight. It's been in 7 years without getting dirty. I flush it each trip away, as I do the Paradox tank.

Right now I'm adding ballast in the bow end to see what effect it has on handling. I'm using anchor chain in canvas bags that can just be lifted over the bulkhead and jammed tight to the floor.

On 5 Sep 2018, at 12:11 AM, greatketch33@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

Water Tanks that Leak

Last weekend while preparing my paradox out for a sail I discovered something I missed the prior weekend. It happened when I was showing someone the boat and showed them everything. After filling the water tanks, I proceeded to show the dry storage areas under the floor, and that was when I noticed it was not dry storage anymore. Was the water coming in from the lake or the water tanks?

My plan is to let the boat dry out while on the trailer, and then fill the starboard tank and observe all areas for water. If there is water outside the tank, find the leak. I am hoping it is a breach where the pipe enters the tank where the filler tube is connected. It may be the hose clamp is bad, or the hose has deteriorated.

I will perform that same test on the port tank. The worst-case scenario is that the 4-inch deck plates will be replaced with larger ones, so I can epoxy seal the tanks.

Pros – Water tanks are easy to fill from garden hose and a centrifugal pump removes 85 percent of water from the tanks – minutes.

Cons -  If they leak, your dry as a bone boat is now a wet ride.

Fairwinds,

Deric

Psv/ The Edge