From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 25 Apr 2003 21:52:39 -0000
Subject: Re: (Son of) Little Jim (II, the sequel)

Hi David. 

Our little canoe yawl was an Elver designed by Steve Redmond and judiciously modified by myself, with leeboards substituted for a centerboard. While the boat was perfect for our needs at the time, I remember her being a disappointing boat in general. Whether this could have been attributed to the original design or the fact that I butchered the design, I dare say that a Cal 20 would have been the better boat in EVERY respect.

I read very recently where Glen stated that there are so many good designs out there from which to choose, that it should never be necessary to modify an existing one. I quite agree. I disrespected the work of the designer of my canoe yawl, and quickly lost respect for my boat. 

It should be noted however, I have no problem modifying details of a design, as long as the designed specifications and overall geometry remain as drawn. I have no problem for instance substituting Okume marine ply for Doug Fir ACX. Nor do I have a problem with living space modifications provided they are practical, sound, and again, DO NOT AFFECT THE OVERALL GEOMETRY OR SPECIFICATIONS of the boat as drawn. Want to move that distribution panel to an area which you deem more practical? Do it. I have been employeed by some of the world's highest regarded yards and manufacturers of boats, where design modifications are a daily occurance. None of those mods have ever involved the general specifications or geometry of the boat. This is how a design evolves, and consequently how yacht design in general evolves; through the practical construction by marine industry professionals, and the use of the end product buy knowledgable owners. Ever wonder why designers list their revisions? It's all about evolution.

I read with some humor about the HUGE controversy regarding the installation of foam installation aboard a Paradox design. I feel that this is one of those details that is entirely at the whim of the builder, as it's use or absence will ultimately not affect the geometry or specifications of the boat, as drawn. I have first hand knowledge with rot, caused by the lack of ventilation, and use of improperly applied materials. I have witnessed Douglas Fir marine plywood check even under glass. I fully respect the decision by some, to eliminate the use of foam floatation, which would hinder both the adequate ventilation of the structure, as well as the ability to periodically inspect same. Certainly the builder respects the fact that a lack of foam flotation constitutes a lack of positive buoyancy. The conclusion I believe, ended with the pondering of the use of air bladders, which I inferred to mean bladders filled at an instant, with CO2. This could ultimately prove the best scenario for the boat in question, and may in fact prove to be a superior performing means of buoyancy... if the boat ever commences to sink.

My personal choice will likely be to utilize the foam floatation (insulation for NW anti-summers), glued in place, but covered with a sheet material (3mm ply, or perhaps a pre-formed sheet of kevlar/epoxy) in an attempt to limit the possibilty of impact damage. I would use only Okume marine ply (at a minimum) for the hull, so I would not fear checking or consequent moisture intrusion behind the foam, and at any rate, I would be certain that my insulation were fully bonded to the surrounding structure. This compromise would be adequate for me, though it should be noted that the sheet material applied to the foam is a departure from the original design, JUST AS IS THE ELIMINATION OF THE FOAM.

What the hell is a [chime] log anyway???? I suspect that someone needs to re-read their "Little Golden Book of Marine Terminology".

Wow, I have sure worked myself up today. 

David, I'm not familiar with a "welsh miner's lamp", though perhaps I have seen one before. I wonder where such a beast would fit within the interior of a Paradox design. Al says that there is nowhere at eye level where a lamp could be installed, and I'm certain that such is true. I would be interested in a lamp as more of a heat source than a light source, but it would have to be in an unobtrusive location and still maintain it's ability to gimbal. I wonder if there would be a better design for a lamp chimney for producing heat, perhaps metal with baffles/coils? And then there's the matter of location. And soot.

Time for me to go visit the "Better Mousetrap" group.

DC