From: greatketch33@yahoo.com
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Being on the Edge
Date: 10 Sep 2018 15:33:21 +0000


Part Two: Top of the Edge

Last weekend, for my second sail on “The Edge,” I challenged myself to sail further out into Oneida Lake. This lake is considered the largest lake in New York State that is completely within by the state’s boarders. Lake Ontario, which does boarder New York State is one of the Great Lakes, but her coastline is also shared with Canada. Oneida Lake is approximately 20 plus miles east to west, and 5-6 miles at its widest point north to south. Most of the time I sail on the east side of the lake where west winds show their best. These winds build a nice fetchingly fetch for all sailors to attend with care. The lake is deepest at approximately 45 feet, and neighboring farmland streams and creeks run off into the lake. The shallow depth of the east end of the lake combined with a west wind and fetch often create conditions the J-24 fleet strive: fast, deep heeling, with lots of rolling and rockin.

If one were to travel the Great Lakes south to the Caribbean one is likely to cross Oneida Lake as part of the canal system connecting the Great Lakes to the Hudson River. From such point, one would follow the east coast of the U.S. to Florida and cut across the Gulf Stream. Many times, I have seen snow-birds motor within channel markers; their masts mounted horizontally resting on home made X braces. Steady and with an innate sense of guidance, they like the feathered sailors of the sky, migrate purposefully south.

For my second time sailing it was about 5:00pm when I set out into Oneida Lake, and my destination was a local gathering place where one would encounter plenty of restaurants to satisfy the pallet, as well as plenty of women to satisfy the optical. Sailing on a run, I was finding the sail very comfortable. At a speed of 2 knots accompanied by teasingly ripples of water, the conditions were perfect for my stretching about on “The Edge.” So it was without hesitation that I stood up from my hard wooden bench type seat and leaned against the cabin side and looked about. After several moment of leaning on the port side of the cabin and not detecting any noticeable activity worthy of my attention, I moved to the starboard side of the cabin, leaned and looked about. The ability to stand in my boat without fear of capsizing was reassuring, and, I considered the design beneficial for those who liked to stretch their legs; ah such an attribute not typically given the amount of attention it deserved. After moments of looking about, I became concerned because standing in the cabin while on a run - - albeit, more like a slow walk in the actual sense of speed - - was that I could not see through the large white sail. The nice white new sail developed into a slowing moving billboard with me, and it had nothing to say. It just stared back at me with its white blankness.

Of course, as with most sailors, my mind started thinking of ways to solve the problem; should I have had the sail made with a plastic window like they have on Hobie catamaran sails as well as other numerous boats? What would the cost be to add the window? How much would the window cost? Can I do it myself? Do I have time sew the window? After several minutes of pondering the flakey large square obstruction, which indeed hindered my 360 degree view as I stood in the cabin. I decided to sit down on the wooden hard bench seat. “Ah, much better,” I thought. “I can see full points of the compass, and it didn’t cost me any additional time or money. “Keep it simple” mantra echoed in my mind.

It