From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 3 Oct 2018 07:03:21 +0930
Subject: Re: Paradox Trailer Bolt [1 Attachment]

Another day of sailing, it has at last warmed up enough to go sailing, 27 C, 5 to 15 kts. After weeks of alterations to the boat I got to test it in the Port River at Adelaide. It's a narrow body of water highly industrialised and full of traffic to navigate. Launched at dawn at St. Kilda and the wind followed me out of the shallows into the river and all the way into the shopping district. Others in sailboats came by to compliment it's looks, Other sailors can see it's built for adventure, it seems. 
After a pancake breakfast it was two and a bit hours of tacking back along the narrow river. Again, luffing up for other traffic, power vessels, especially commercial ones do not give way?

I now have over 30 kg in the bow area, lead ingots and anchor chain in stout canvas bags. Tacking in the calm water was good, only four out of perhaps 30 tacks required the oar to help. About ten stout strokes on the oar and each time and the boat was round, and firmly back across the wind. 
I hand-held the main sheet, whilst tacking, to feel when it was slack, and when it was driving the boat, that helped me understand the forces more. Normally I leave the main sheet cleated and so don't get the feel of what force is on the sail and how it changes as I turn. I recommend all novices try it I found it illuminating.

With the ballast forward the rudder could be left alone, the boat found a point across the wind and steered itself? I have cleats inside I can lock the rudder rope into, one left one right, just at the top of the rear shelves. I locked the rudder in and was hands-free for about 20 minutes on one run too! Very relaxing, had a cup of tea and some food and watched the world go by.

Moving the exit point of the main sheet higher and closer to the cabin is brilliant no more awful tangles around the outboard motor. The topping lift was brilliant, I count the times I've used it, in practice and now on the water. 
I'm 12 for 12, no hiccups, so I strain the topping lift line, cleat the main sheet central to the hull Small measured amounts of furling on a sail that's not under strain, and down it came EVERY TIME, what joy.

I have sanded the face of the rudder blade dead flat, I added a piece of thin plywood to the blade area that's in contact with the upper rudder and resined it over and over and kept it dead flat, it's stopped the clunking of the rudder and while not as effective as moving the ballast forward it helped its tracking downwind, only one gybe all day, I sailed about 5 hours (then the wind died and I motored two hours back).

I looked at every rope and block and screw on the boat, it's now 2 years old. One rope I simply turned around end for end and it's good for another year or two now. It was worn close to the end, not critically but it was chafing. Fitted a cleat to the deck for the anchor cable and I can drop anchor in seconds now. Pull the line out of the locking cleat and plop the anchor drops. 
Figuring if I get into the shallows drop anchor, the boat should swing into the wind then the sail would be unloaded then and then furling would be quick and easy.

I moved the ballast I had under the main floor. I moved it forward and inboard, I had it along the lower chine the full length of the floor against the floor and the chine log. It's moved the balance not only forward but it's made the boat heel more, that might take some getting used to. Weight outboard is much better for balance. When I was putting the ballast in I contacted the engineering department of Adelaide Uni. They explained why ballast outboard is best for stability, in brief it's about Dynamic Stability not static stability. They used the analogy of a tightrope walker and the long pole that they have to stay balanced, weight outboard helps lateral balance.

I cleaned the inside of the hull to and re-plumbed the water tank. New water pump that doesn't drip, made in NZ, costly but good quality. I cut all excess rope off, a smaller pile of rope at my feet now. Didn't cut a lot off, but it's better, and I remembered to place a stop knot in each one after cutting the ends and sealing them, I carry spare rope and tools to cut and seal it. 
It's a part of the kit. I also carry spare double pulleys to kedge off if I get stuck. A recovery kit of sorts.

I shortened the boom a little, it was too generous in length and was helping foul the main sheet over the outboard motor. I carry a boat hook, a long pole that's collapsible and helps me reach out of the cabin without getting out of the cabin, it's the handiest thing, less energy and much safer than crawling around the deck at sea.

There was much more to the day than just testing my alterations, And joy of joy they all worked! It's about Sailing, sun, sea, and adventure. 
Hope others are out there too
Nick (Thor)