From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 24 Oct 2018 09:55:13 +0000
Subject: The day things went wrong

When things go wrong they tend to go wrong in threes, so they say. I decided that Christchurch Estuary was the place to go, since I have a friend nearby who hasn't seen my latest build and I haven't sailed there since the Christchurch earthquake in 2011 changed the underwater topography. The forecast said 8 - 10 knot breezes and the tides were about right for a night over. My friend helped me launch and then watched as I tried to remember how to raise my sprit sail, got it horribly wrong and drifted downwind for quite some distance before sorting it out. Eventually, it got sorted and then he was impressed with how high I was able to point and progress against the incoming tide. I sailed out to the mouth of the Estuary, but turned tail when I was unable to tack into the waves coming across the bar. From here I sailed downwind to the top of the Estuary, located a pleasant spot to dry out, cooked a nice dinner, read a Sci Fi novel till 10.00pm and then went to bed.

When it came time to leave the following day, the breeze was 18+ knots, not the 8 knots (1st go wrong) predicted by the weather forecasters. This wasn't good, since my destination was directly upwind. Somehow I had to retrieve my anchor and immediately start sailing upwind in shallow water or I'd end up on the opposite river bank. OK, I'll scandalise the sail and hope I can just squeak past the bank into open water. I crawled forward onto the front deck, retrieved my anchor and surprised myself by being able to start sailing immediately and upwind to boot! Why was that? After all, the water was so shallow the rudder was nearly horizontal.

The next 5 minutes went well and then I entered deeper water and lowered the rudder. That was fine until there was a sudden lull. When the breeze next picked up, I couldn't sail upwind any more. What had happened? I couldn't work it out. I raised the rig again to full sail and continued upwind, getting into stronger and stronger conditions. With the full rig, gusts were virtually lying me on my side, but I was still going in the right direction... until I hit a sand bar (2nd go wrong). The boat was stuck in 8 inches of water and was so heavy I couldn't move it. What do I do now, I'm at full tide? Perhaps, if I empty the water ballast, that might help? I ran the pump until the ballast tanks were half empty and found that if I put my weight on the bow of the boat and pulled at the same time, I was able to pull her into deeper water, but I'm wet and tired from physical exertion and the wind is now blowing above 20 knots.

I jump in and try to sail upwind, but without the water ballast, she no longer points. I crab sideways towards my destination, but it's never going to happen. Can I sail downwind, build up speed and then bring her into the wind? Nope. Can I use the sculling oar to bring her around? Nope. This is getting to be VERY frustrating! In the end I sail towards the shore, jump out into waist deep water (3rd go wrong) and have to walk her back to the launching point with the assistance of my friend, who sensibly... says nothing!

What have I learned?
1. A Paradox is way too heavy to run aground in.
2. Once you empty your ballast tanks, downwind is the only place you can go.
3. When my sprit sail is scandalised, the CoE moves FORWARD. Having the rudder raised also moves the CoE forward. If I'd left the rudder horizontal instead of lowering it in deeper water, I might have got back without any problems, but further testing is required to confirm that.
4. It would help if I remained calm when things aren't going according to plan!