From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Video of motoring into shore late afternoon
Date: Sat, 27 Oct 2018 19:59:44 +1030

A short motoring in from deeper out in the Spencer Gulf
The beginning and end are not dramatic, just me dropping the iPad while trying to hang on

Hi, just an update on furling

I've taken the example of others and fitted one longer rope to the tumbler, it goes around the tumbler (four turns when the sail is down), through the cabin and up the mast as the halyard as well, one long loop as described by others, not as it was two separate ropes.

Not one for the tumbler and one for the halyard, just one long loop, less mess, I mean lots less mess on the floor.
I'm still using the topping lift despite the good advice about increasing the likelihood of a tangle.
So far, so good, and I'm 19 for 19, in completely furling the sail, little effort at long last, (two years after I finished the boat).
Just to reiterate,
I move the boat into wind, tighten the main sheet, and the topping lift.
Now the sail is central on or over the cabin roof.
Release the halyard a little, cleat it, pull the tumbler rope till it's taught, cleat it.
Pull the halyard up taught again to CENTRALISE the boom once more over the cabin roof.
Release the halyard a little, cleat it, pull the tumbler taught rolling the sail down, cleat it.
Repeat until it's fully furled, now it is fully furling, boom touching the yard when down, not with any residual sail left, and it's a mark 2 type sail, not the original squarer one.

I'm using 8 mm rope, I was using thinner rope for the tumbler and thicker 10 mm rope for the halyard, they are now retired from use, and the new softer, more pliable rope is a joy.
My hands are not as sore, neither is my back.
I practice the routine here at home, weekly, so I'm familiar with the order of tightening the main sheet and the topping lift. Remember when I'm doing it in less than ideal conditions; I want it to be a practiced routine. I've been befuddled in the dark one morning when I first set off pre-dawn, and it's a bit scary.
And the rhythm of furling as described must be second nature.
The whole cost was 75 cents a metre, for the rope, very cheap for such a big change.

Off topic but I also practice tying my knots eyes closed too.
Sailing in the dark is a big challenge for me.

Took four sets of raising/lowering to cut the rope to exactly the correct length.
I started with 2 meters too much and raised and lowered, cut a little off and so on till I had the rope the right length for me.
Remember you need a bit extra when stepping the mast if you don't remove the ropes completely when in stepping the mast.
I leave the mast on the port side of the hull when in transit fully rigged ready to go.
No messing about at the boat ramp at all.
Step the mast, check the action of the sail.
Look very carefully for twists or ropes wrapped the wrong way round.
And off I go in under 30 minutes.

I'm busting to get out for a week on it and just sail till I drop.
Won't be this week, this week I'm on a road trip to scout out wild waters in the Great Australian Bight from land side.
It's the biggest obstacle to circumnavigation on a round trip of Australia by boat.
It, and, Bass Straight, both wild windswept dangerous bits of water.
I'll try and get the local commercial fishermen talking in the pub.
They will have excellent advice I hope.
Then plan a very long trip perhaps?
I have an offer of a motor home following me on land and so, hop to the next port, rest, then hop to the next safe haven, and so on. So I'm not a year aboard that tiny space.

Hope some where around the world, someone is reading this from the cabin of a paradox.

Nick (Thor)