From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 2 Jan 2019 21:33:40 +1030
Subject: Re: Sunny days, turquoise waters

Hi,

I have a Yuloh on the shelf in my shed, I am hopeless with it, I use an extendable oar that slides one part into the other, and takes up no space at all. I keep it under the tiller in the rear compartment ready for use, in light winds I use it when the boat stalls when tacking.

In place of the Yuloh I have an extendable boat hook almost the length of the boat, it's the handiest thing, it can be used to pole the boat forward in shallows, and gets things untangled on deck and aloft, without me leaving the safety of the cabin. It's in the original fittings for the Yuloh on the starboard side. Made from lightweight aluminium and bought from a marine store for about 30 dollars?

My Yuloh is from laminated dark and light wood, it's a work of art to look at. But no good at sea, I have a small Honda outboard and it's saved me long frustrating hours of tacking in bad weather. I love it. Here's the Yuloh drying after varnishing it.

On 2 Jan 2019, at 5:58 AM, creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au [paradoxbuilders] <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com> wrote:

Hi Deric,

It was laminated as per the plans, but I used NZ white pine (kahikitea), which I've subsequently learned is not a good wood for boat building as it warps like crazy. The original curve I built into the yuloh disappeared and it reverted to a straight shaft.

I've decided not to build another yuloh. Instead I'm going to repair the broken one and use it as a conventional paddle, albeit a very long one. Because a Paradox is narrow, I was able to easily paddle on one side after another with long deep pulls which gave my whole body a proper workout rather than just my upper arm, standing in the middle of the boat against the forward edge of the hatch. I made quicker progress and felt in better shape afterwards than I ever did with the yuloh. Being shorter, the paddle is much easier to manipulate than the yuloh and easier to use for fending and driving down into the mud to hold the boat when necessary.

In short for the kind of sailing I do, I think a conventional oar is better for me.

Cheers,

Rob.