From: Captain Ketch <greatketch33@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2019 20:21:06 +0000 (UTC)
Subject: Re: Bronze bottom?

I suspect the reason for the bronze was to add ballast or to protect the bottom of the boat, or perhaps both.

Protection of the bottom: The boat is designed and made sturdy by most good builders. The epoxy, and fiberglass, will provide protection but as with all matters of boaters it is aligned to the comfort level of the owner/builder. I have found the paradox to be hearty on to bottom and chines, and they are easy to repair should they receive damage. Rob makes a good point in that there are enough sailers who prefer to not add additional holes in the boat below the water line.

Knowing your cruising grounds and how you sail your boat into waters and areas is prudent to avoiding damage. I remember seeing Dave's blog where he had a tire fastened the bow of his paradox so he can protect the boat when going into the slips or wharfs; the boat would bounce off the structure at the bow and he could navigate the stern to align the boat to the wall, dock, or structure. Point is that he made something because he understood how he wanted to sail the boat and his comfort level to make a change -- apologies to Dave if putting words in his mouth, but it is a great example of why someone makes changes to the design of the boat or creates "add-ons" to the boat.

Ballast: The Paradox affords enough space and manners to create ballast. Some have used water tanks, others used batteries, others bottles with drinking fluids, or concrete, or anything heavy. Having the bronze on the bottom may help in ballast and once it is on the boat, it will not be too easy to remove or add as with other media.

I am encouraged by the thinking outside the box. I would be interested in how the boat handled and with matters of launching, maintaining, and other related aspects of using and owning a Paradox with a bronze plate.

Summary: Without interesting ideas and testing of these ideas we will never know how these ideas affect our experiences. We all learn on the backs of others, from their success and their failures. I wish you much success should you decide to continue on your creative approach for a bronze plated bottom paradox. Please keep is in the know how you progress with your boat. Have fun.

Best - Deric

---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: <creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au>
Date: Wed, Jan 30, 2019 at 3:03 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Bronze bottom?
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com

The way I see it anything that pierces my hull anywhere is going to allow water to seep in and in the long term rot it. I followed the plans and used bronze ring shank nails into the chines, but now wish I had used the method I used on my previous boat, which was square drive wood screws to hold the wood while epoxying and then removing them and filling and taping over the holes.

Anyway, back to your question, all the grounding wear to the boat is going to occur on the chines not in the centre of the hull, so I can't see the bronze plate doing much apart from reducing your need for lead ballast. In practice, the many layers of epoxied cloth specified on the hull bottom in the plans, will protect the hull and I have never found that the nose gets damaged while using my boat, probably because I approach landings at a snail's pace.

I never leave my boat beached, if there is an alternative. It's more comfortable to sleep on when afloat anyway and avoids rubber-neckers.

Another thing to think about is future maintenance. You're going to have to repaint your boat sometime in the future. As per plans, you can remove all the internal fittings, including the lead ballast.

Cheers,
Rob.