From: "" <paradox@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: "alxbrzzl@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders]" <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: Bronze bottom?
Date: Thu, 31 Jan 2019 15:18:27 -0000

Let me start by stating that a bronze plate, as you describe, would not work for me. Your mileage may vary.

A lot of places I sail have sharp flint beaches. When building Little Jim I had planned to accept the damage these would cause when landing and every winter would fill the damage with epoxy putty. After 15 years I haven't yet bothered to do this. All the paint has gone off the forward half of the bottom (aft of bulkhead 3 doesn't ground as the rudder stock holds it up) but there is no significant damage to the fibreglass. I think Sven needs the protection as his craft is foam with a thin fibreglass skin and would therefore be susceptible to point impact from stones on a beach.

I have added protection in a couple of places using copper water pipe, which I slit and hammered to shape. I found the bottom of the stem suffered from hard beaching and from the snubbing block on the trailer. The foot of the rudder stock also suffers when grounding. But the worst was the forward edge of the rudder where it wore through the glass in one season (I do spend a lot of time in shallow water). Opening out the pipe to form a sheet, hammering it to shape then bonding in place with epoxy seems to have fixed those problems.

I am now seriously considering similarly protecting the edges of the chine runners as they need fairly frequent attention.

The big disadvantage of the bronze plate, as I see it, is that you can't easily remove part of it. I started out with the suggested 180kg of lead to bring the boat down to it's lines. I am now down to about 50kg as I have replaced it with anchors, chain, batteries etc. etc. but the boat is still on it's lines.

Let us know what you decide. and share you experience here. You might well end up teaching us something.

On 30 Jan 2019 at 17:45, alxbrzzl@yahoo.com [paradoxbuilders] wrote:

I am at the begining of my paradox adventure and I have been contemplating fitting a thin bronze plate (3-5mm probably) to the underside of my hull to act as ballast, and a thick skin to prevent damaging the fiberglass upon beach landings or unwanted encounters with shoal. I'm curious to know if anyone has done something similar with their paradox and how they went about doing so? I would also love to hear any reasons why it may be a bad idea.

http://www.yrvind.com/the-bronze-plate-is-on/ Sven's exlex minor has a very similar plate (though thicker than I desire). I would also like to put a smaller piece nearer to the bow specifically for protection while beaching her. Please let me know what you guys think, any information regarding bronze plating over ply would be much appreciated as I am entirely inexperienced in that area.

--

Sail when you can, row when you must, motor only when you have to be at work in the morning.

Alastair Law
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>