From: Patrick Hooker <pathooker@gci.net>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Lil Cruiser Plans
Date: Wed, 30 Apr 2003 10:55:20 -0800


Dave,

A good book on Sharpie design was written by Reuel Parker -- "The Sharpie Book".  I've been studying it intently. As for your description of a Sharpie I think you are generally correct.  I would add that the curve of the bottom was not always a smooth arc.  The arc often flattened out toward the stern, part of which was often out of the water. This put the lowest part of the arc somewhat forward of amidship.  I think one designer considered the exact shape of the arc quite important. Examining the drawings I'd say that the portion of the bottom below water line was often pretty close to a smooth arc though. On larger Sharpies some designers did use a very shallow 'V' bottom or even a slight arc side to side, this apparently for strength. A 'V' bottom could be done with plywood, not sure you could torture plywood into the compound arc for the latter style.  Side flare was stated as 3 1/2 to 4 inches per foot of rise amidships and aft, and diminishing to a vertical rise at the bow.

Patrick(Alaska!) << an avid Sharpie fan, hoping to buile a 48 footer some day.

David LeBlanc wrote:

Hey all;

Dave and Larry, thanks for the feedback.

I need to specifically build all the boat (as inexpensively as possible) that I can, that is as little under 16' as possible. That's where the 15'11" length came from. Without an engine, this avoids Washington state's annual big registration bite (a non-income tax state, WA derives it's income from fees etc.)

Am I being totally naive, or is a sharpie's underwater proflie a smooth arc from bow to stern that is flat from side to side, has chine runners and gently flared sides? If that where true, then understanding the internal structure/bracing in Lil Cruiser or Paradox would be all the additional infomation required?

I have been told by no less than 2 commercial designers that the limit to upsizing/downsizing a design is 10%. Above that, all the boat's equations are thrown hopelessly out of kilter they say.

It sure would be nice if Matt's attention could be attracted to this...

Regards,

Dave LeBlanc
Seattle, WA USA