From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: 04 Apr 2019 19:11:12 -0700
Subject: Do you want to swap boats?

I’ve just returned from two days sailing in company with a Whiting 16 (first time I’ve managed to get away after my wife passed away recently. If you’re married... cherish your wife. It’s not much fun coming home to an empty house), a typical Bermudan rigged fiberglass dinghy, but shaped in the modern style with a very wide transom. It’s maximum beam was 2.4m compared to a Paradox, which is 1.23m.

Day One 

I wake up cold with condensation on the windows. There’s a frost on the ground and a cold katabatic breeze coming down the valley. I wriggle around with the hatch closed to get dressed and then fold my sleeping gear over so that it is wedged between bulkheads 2 & 3. I’ve discovered you can leave it there while you cook breakfast and it has a chance to dry out. After a breakfast of warm porridge, fruit and croissants, I wash my dishes, pack everything away and I’m ready to go. I still wish my Paradox was 17 feet long instead of 14 feet. It takes a long time to do anything because there’s no room to move. You’re constantly lifting the seat in and out of position to get that item you forgot to get out from under the floor the first time.

Our Whiting 16 sailor prefers to live in style, so he leaves his boat in the water, but spends the night in a motel cabin 10 minutes drive away. Eventually he arrives and starts the laborious process of rigging his boat. I push off, raise the sprit rig and sail out of the anchorage. I sail around outside the harbour for ages it seems to me, but take the opportunity to try out my GoPro. He shows up and we begin to sail upwind across the lake. The wind goes very light, but I notice that on port tack (the sprit rig’s spars are on the port side of the mast) I can outpoint him significantly. I quietly sail just on the edge of luffing (but also go for very long periods of time without touching the tiller) and next thing, he is a long way back. After a while he gives up and starts his outboard. I suggest that he try giving me a tow which he does, but warn him beforehand to leave plenty of scope. A Paradox ploughing into the back of his boat with plenty of way on would at minimum give him a big fright. Other scenarios don’t bear thinking about!

We pull up on a beach and he brings out his sandwiches. I offer him a hot cup of tea as well.

The sail home is plagued with virtually no wind at all. I manage to ghost at 0.4 knot. He is becalmed and motors home. I sail home, but my average speed would have been 0.7 knots. Still, he was surprised how quickly I appeared.

He departs for comfortable accomodation. I cook up steak, potatoes, mushrooms, onions, tomatoes and salad on my Origo 1500 alcohol stove using a pressure cooker. A pressure cooker is great for a single burner stove, because you can take it off the heat and it will continue cooking while you cook something else.

I read a Sci Fi novel till 10.30pm using my integrated LED lighting system and then go to bed.

Day Two 

It’s cold again, but I go through the same routines as yesterday. I try to be as civilised as possible when sailing, wearing fresh clothes daily and carrying out all the necessary ablutions. It’s easy to skip these things (what does it matter if I don’t brush my teeth today), but I’ve found that keeping up appearances makes a big difference to your mental mood, let alone what others think of you! Showering though, clearly isn’t possible on a Paradox in cold weather. You can get away with sponge bathing, but I’ve only done that in warm weather.

Day Two is a repeat of Day One except that this time we have do downward run, an upwind beat and a beam reach.

Downwind - Paradox wins.
Upwind - Whiting wins.
Beam reach - Paradox wins?

I’m not sure why the results on Day Two weren’t nearly as comprehensive as Day One. The upwind beat was on starboard tack. Perhaps the spit rig isn’t so competitive on that tack? Or perhaps he got it right today, I got it wrong, he found wind and I didn’t. I noticed, for instance, that I’d had the sail in too tight for quite a while thinking I was beating when in fact I could have been beam reaching. As soon as I left the sail out the boat accelerated, but he was far ahead of me by then and he looked to be close hauled the whole time.

No matter, he is clearly impressed with a Paradox’s capabilities and asks to look inside. When he emerges he says ‘Would you like to swap boats?’ ‘Not really.’ ‘Thought not’ he says ‘and why would you!’