From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Fri, 5 Apr 2019 15:44:25 +1030
Subject: Re: Do you want to swap boats?

I’ve spent four days in a row in mine last month 
Running before a good breeze each day, the same wind all week as it turned out.
My wife dropped me off and then four days and 70 miles later picked me up.
Close to shore the sea was calmer as the wind came off the land and so the waves had no chance to build any height, in shallow watts here they build to about four foot and have a steep face on them.
Off shore the waves were bigger than the boat, crossing a bay the view behind the boat was awful to look at, waves above eye level, of course the boat crests them, but it looks ominous. The view ahead improves too as you crest a bigger wave, things disappear in the troughs.

No hot food day one, I slept at anchor for the first time, was broken sleep.
Going into wind with my Mk2 sail is a waste of time on rough days by the way I’d motor to a safe anchorage and sleep and read. 
The flat bottom slaps hard and it’s slow and uncomfortable, in calmer water it’s fine though.

On a broad reach it’s much more relaxing than a following wind, less action needed on the tiller.
I sail in warmer climes and so I’m not bothered by condensation, the roof is open most nights.
I did feel more secure in big wave territory if I was tied in with the roof all but closed, it’s a mental thing I suppose being separated from the water.

Day two was fun and ended in very shallow water and beaching in the mid afternoon to cook a curry. Then drifted till dark, under bare poles, looking over the side at the sea floor and found a cove out of the wind, I slept very well.

Day three I was covering familiar territory and only sailed half the day.
As I was approaching the shore, a boat came out to see if I was ok, the small size of the Paradox sees me saying, no I’m ok, a lot. I get so many offers of help, I’m thinking of painting a sign on the hull. “Go away I’m ok,” or something similar.
I walked a lot that afternoon, to the headland I had just sailed around, looking at the reef that two years ago almost claimed me and the boat. But that’s another story.

The last day was a mixture of wind speeds and at all times I was at 4 knots.
I reef hard and reef early, the boat seems to have a bigger sail than needed.
I’m thinking of putting a Bermuda rig on.
I have the sails, given to me by a friend’s wife, he never lived to finish his boat.
I was given the lot, though the hull was unusable for anything but firewood.
Then I’ll have a story to write.

I hope someone out there is sailing right now.
Nick

Drying the washing