From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: rig details
Date: Sun, 4 May 2003 19:16:54 +0000

Hi DC

I just received my Paradox plans (thanks Dave) and have been pouring
over them for the greater part of the day. I'm sure to be learning a
great deal of the design as I proceed, but hopefully I can prod some
of you builders for some wisdom.

Wisdom? Are you sure you are in the right place?

I've studied Glen's rig photos with a great deal of interest. Glen's
addition of a topping lift seems to make a lot of sense, and is
something which I will seriously consider, and definitely allow
provisions for it's addition if I don't immediately incorporate it.

I tried it without a topping lift at first, but it just didn't work for me.
My topping lift is simpler than Glen's consisting only of a loop from
end to end of the boom with a halliard tied to it about one third from
the luff. I have used no pulleys as the main halliard lifts the boom
and the topping lift just holds it in place. It is easier to put in the
deck fittings before the vent trunk is closed up.

I do have a question about the brass pipe spacer surrounding the tack
strop. It appears that there could be the potential for the end of the
pipe to (quickly?) bugger up the deck through regular use. Have any of
you owners noticed this occuring? Have any ideas?

I put in the swaged copper (water) pipe in the deck, and swaged
the end of the strut back on itself so it resembled half a donut.
Some paint has rubbed off the copper, but the deck is untouched.
Remember for most of the actual sailing the main halliard and the
wind in the sail will cause the boom to lift against the rope and the
strut is held clear of the deck.

I was wondering if perhaps a "donut" of UHMW around the end of this
pipe would protect the deck from damage and still perform as
necessary. The "donut" in my mind's eye would have a 1/2" or 3/4"
roundover, all around. This would seem to me to be gentler on the deck
which may or may not further benefit from a pad (leather, teak, UHMW?)
of it's own. I guess ideally, I could see a LOOSE ball and socket
arrangement, provided full range of movement and no interference with
the furling line were encountered.

Then again, maybe I'm failing to see the obvious. Perhaps the pipe
spacer/tack strop works perfectly?

I'm looking forward to getting started next week.

DC

Works for me.

I am off for another 2 day trip tomorrow. This time I shall be
venturing onto the high seas (but not very far).

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.