From: "DC" <kd7ixk@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: rig details
Date: Mon, 05 May 2003 04:27:16 -0000

Thanks Al and Glen for your insight.

Al, I went to your website to study your photos again. I have used the very same arrangement that you are for your topping lift. I've found it to be a great solution for those instances when I have wished to rig a boom tent over a boom that lacks a gooseneck. I've always started with a thimble lashed into the bridle, so that I can work to get the balance correct. When all works well, the thimble is permanently seized into position. Simple. 

I think that I will try to make do without the topping lift initially, as Glen has suggested, but to be honest, I can't see going too long without one of some fashion. I can't quite wrap my mind around the transition from stowed on deck, to unfurling. 

Regarding the tack strop/pipe spacer... I'm encouraged by the fact that you both report that there has been no cause for concern. May I assume that the tack strop is hardened before the sail is unfurled? By which, I mean do you harden the strop while the furled rig is stowed on deck? If so, there must be a slight amount of slack in the strop when the sail is hoisted and the tack strop becomes oriented more vertically. The amount of slack in the strop is what specifically worried me, as I thought that surely the pipe must at some time contact the deck during moments of sail occillation due to a lull or shift in the wind. I guess that the amount of slack must remain negligable if the pipe always remains in the flaired tube. Again, thanks so much for your comments. 

Glen, I think I will take your advice to increase the length of the pipe spacer. My Chinese pipe stretcher has nowhere near the capacity necessary to deal with 1 1/2", though the picture on the box suggests that it should be no problem. I should have bought that Craftsman stretcher.

While Al is enjoying the next few days aboard Little Jim, I shall be starting in on deckbeams and cleat stock. Have fun Al. Thanks both.

DC