From: Nick Bell <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thu, 9 May 2019 13:45:58 +0930
Subject: Re: Rescued in Force 6

Hi

I let the boat be tipped on its side on purpose in front of a sailing race
Lots of boats about in case the worst happened, it didn't, I set it up side on to a short sharp set of waves, next to the judges boat and finish line, it went flat over, all the sail just in the water, then I let the tiller go and waited, as if I were helpless. It came straight up violently, like it had a spring under it.
Easy, it worked as promised.

The second time was an accident
Trying to get into a tide race to speed my progress and went through the wrong gap in an off shore reef, it was too shallow and the swell and the running tide were all wrong, the wave broke broadside to me, I heard it first, it was curling and white capped, ugly looking thing, the hatch was open and a lot of stuff went overboard never to be seen again
The boat got way over and the hatch was scooping in water, the boat was driven along like a grader blade, scooping up sea water, it was frightening, I was holding on by my finger tips face down toward the rushing water.
The wave eventually overtook the boat and the sail started to empty of water, It was full under, I guess 100 to maybe 120 degrees over?
Once the sail was out of the water, again, the boat flew upright with a bang, I was bruised a bit and now have a padded area around where I sit. I then made a comedy of errors and it could have been a lot worse, it was my third sail and my first trip over a few days.
I ended up with a sore back and a few aches is all
The boat protected me even in my stupidest moment

It will fly upright as soon as the sail is dry
I have the planned amount of ballast in mine
And a water tank under the floor which was all but full at the time
The only time I can think I won't help you is with monster waves holding the boat under water, but who is going to be out in monster waves?

I built mine with the foam flotation in between the walls and roof and I measured the flotation of all the wood I built it with by cutting a thin stick of it and putting it in an upright jar and measuring how much of the wooden stick stuck out of the water in the jar vs how much was under water, took the ballast into account and the boat by my calculations, full of water, completely swamped is just proud of the water, a few inches out.
I think? Somewhere? There is a comment about Matt being swamped and sailing on after bailing.?
Somewhere

Hope this helps 
The boat built to plan and ballasted correctly will right itself.

Nick