From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 7 May 2003 19:33:30 +0000
Subject: Re: Rig Details


Got back *late* last night. Report to follow when I have recovered.

If I lock off the furling line then hauling on the main halyard lifts the boom above the cabin into a severely reefed position (ie no sail). I then tighten up the topping lift and this stops the boom falling when the furling line is eased. When I have unfurled as much as I want the furling line is made fast and the topping lift released. (In fact, of course, simply hauling on the halyard just gives you sore hands and the boom has to be helped into position by hand)

If you go to www.asjg.clara.co.uk/little_jim/little_jim.htm and select 'Afloat' the first picture shows the whole arrangement ready for use. One line runs from the end of the boom up to the topping lift halyard and down to the furling axle. The topping lift halyard goes through an eye and back down the mast into the cabin. I had to spend a while playing with the best location of the halyard on the boom line so that the boom was supported level. It's not perfect, but it works.

Something else I have done, to reduce the amount of rope in the cabin is to make the halyard and furling line continuous, so as the halyard is hauled in the furling line is pulling out and only a 3ft loop is actually in the cabin. The bone disadvantage that I can see is that it is not possible to simply release the halyard and drop the sail over the side in an emergency, but then I have never been convinced that having all that sail over the side would be a good thing even in an emergency. Anyway so far that seems to work too.

To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
Date: Mon, 5 May 2003 08:16:50 -0400
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Rig Details

Hi Al,

I guess when you get this you will have returned from your latest cruise and will fill us in on how it went, so here's wishing you a belated good time. Could you describe your topping lift arrangement in a little more detail, I didn't quite understand how the main halyard lifts the boom. Could it be that you have a tie around the sail until you are ready to unfurl? 

Tailwinds
Glen 

Hoping for calm nights

Al
Yeovil, England.