From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Offshore Trip Report
Date: 22 Sep 2019 09:49:35 +0000


Offshore Trip Report

The idea behind this trip was to see what it’s like to be offshore for a significant period of time. My initial gung-ho plan was to go offshore for 100 miles. This got pared back to 50 miles when I realised just how long I would be at sea for, probably 3 or 4 days. After talking to various friends, even 50 miles sounded ridiculous. I would be beyond the shelter that Banks Peninsula provides and would be exposed to large swells coming up from the Southern Ocean; 6 metre+ swells are not uncommon. Eventually, I chickened out and elected to spend the night just 10 miles offshore. Even at 10 miles, there were many people who thought I was crazy. The worst were yachting people. Can he sail? He’ll capsize. He built the boat himself? It’s going to fall apart! Where’s your dry suit? You’ll fall off the boat and drown in the freezing water. No motor!?! You’re going to die. On and on it went! If I had listened to all these opinions, I would never have left home. 

Don’t listen to the naysayers, just get out there and do it!



Day 1:

I arrived too late for the high tide and had to cool my heels for the day, visiting friends, going out to lunch and reading in my car. Very late in the day, I launched and sailed to Quail Island in a fresh breeze.



Day 2:

Had breakfast, tidied everything away and began sailing down the harbour at 8.00am with a following breeze and a falling tide. Made excellent progress and near the heads decided the boat is getting overpowered in the fresh breeze, so scandalized it and proceeded out of the heads sedately. The wind drops away and I raise the rig again. Scandalizing and raising the rig is simple to do and I’m now familiar enough with the boat to know when this should be done.

I continue sailing the 20 nautical miles required to reach my way point 10 miles off the coast, at Kaiapoi. I covered this distance at an average speed of 2.5 knots over 8 hours. Over numerous trips now, I have worked out that your trip planning must assume 2.5 knots. A Paradox maxes out at 5 knots, but your average speed won’t come close to that. It will be between 2.0 to 2.5 knots.

Couldn’t quite make the way point on one tack, so had to tack backwards and forwards a few times to cross it.

Threw out the drogue (a 50m line between the two stern cleats with a 5 metre length of garden hose threaded though it). The motion was horrible and I became sea-sick within 5 minutes of lying ahull. Incapacitated with the retching, I lay on the floor of the boat, while it bounced around in the swells. Didn’t get changed, cook tea or do anything until midnight, apart from turning on my masthead light. However, during this time, I was worried about being run over by a ship and also wondered how far I was drifting.



Day 3:

At 12.30am I roused myself, checked my position and was shocked to discover I had already drifted 4 nautical miles from my way point towards land. At this rate I would wash up onto Southshore beach before dawn. Something HAD to be done! Through the retching, I managed to raise the rig scandalized and change us to a course taking us offshore, leaving the drogue in place. The drogue wouldn’t allow the boat to point into the wind, but it did allow the boat to broad reach away from the beach at around 0.75 knots and having some sail up reduced the boat’s motion substantially, making it much more pleasant to be on. The boat remained stable broad reaching and once I realised I didn’t need to monitor it, I drifted off to sleep for the next two hours. Woke, checked the course, found it still correct and slept soundly for the next 2 hours, waking at 6.00am to find the sea sickness had gone. In all, the boat had drifted around 8 nautical miles during the night, the first 4 towards the beach, the next 4 back out to sea, so when I woke up, I found myself 0.5 nautical miles from my original track out, and a little over half way back down it. These distances surprised me. I didn’t think I would cover so much ground.

Pulled in the drogue which was horribly twisted and mixed up with seaweed. I suspect my speed might have fallen to 0.5 knots just before I woke up.

The remainder of the trip was uneventful. I’d covered 40 nautical miles (including the drifting) in 36 hours, averaging just over 1 knot. I only resorted to paddling once for a missed tack and again for 100 metres, just to get out of a hole of still air next to Godley Head, which I felt I was getting too close to.



Conclusions:

- The open sea is boring. It’s a desert out there.
- Being sea sick is not pleasant and in my case lasts approximately ½ a day.
- Towing a drogue works, but only in conjunction with the boat being actively sailed. You cannot sail upwind with a drogue.
- Paradoxes are so well built and have such a safe helm position, I didn’t feel unsafe at any time on the boat. I only felt unsafe from other human activity around me e.g. being run over by a ship.