From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Little Jim's third outing
Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 21:43:50 -0000

Thanks for sharing your trip with us!  It sounded like great fun, 
and I'm glad you weren't attacked by her Majesty's Swans. 

---

I had another great two days on Poole harbour earlier this week. 
(Have a look at www.phc.co.uk for information and maps of Poole). 
I again launched at the Ridge Wharf Boatyard on the River Frome. 
At just after midday I set off sculling out of the boatyard and down 
the river. The river was quiet, so once clear of the boatyard (and all 
those watching eyes) I hoist the sail about half way. The wind was 
forecast to be SW F3-4 but in the river with its reed banks it is 
much less than that. We glide gently down river, gybing round each 
meander with little fuss. Once out of the shelter of the river the sail 
was hauled to the top of the mast and it feels like we are flying. 
The GPS says we are doing 4.7m/h (4.1kn) the Dutchman's Log 
makes it just over 3kn. They could both be right as we are going 
with the tide. 

We reach Brownsea island in less than an hour and go round the 
south side, through Blood Alley to the beach below South Haven 
Point. The wind is from the SW and the tide is rising so I drop the 
anchor in the shallows and leave LJ nudging against the shore 
while I go over the point and look at the ocean. With the wind from 
this direction the sea is flat and I make the decision to venture out 
in the morning.

It takes me a few minutes to work out the best way of getting going 
again and I decide that next time I shall bring another anchor so 
that I can drop it further out and use it to haul off. However a 
friendly holiday-maker helped push the bow round and we were off, 
sailing close hauled, to Green Island. The wind has increased somewhat, 
and we have a steady angle of heel of 30 degrees. While this did not feel 
dangerous I decided on discretion and reefed to half the sail. (Note to self: 
must do that capsize test!). 

We anchor off the NE side of Green Island and I have some tea 
while watching the birds and, for about ten minutes, a deer that 
came out of the woods at the waters edge. We settle onto the mud 
at about 6:30 so I reckon that if I am up by 6:30 in the morning I 
should have half an hour to get the anchor up. I settle down for the 
evening surrounded by wading birds feeding in the mud.

Next morning I woke up at 5:30 and looked at my watch: "another 
hour till I have to get up" I thought. But then I heard the bottom 
scraping on the mud; I had forgotten the Poole has very odd tides. 
Not only a double high water but also different heights in morning 
and evening. I leapt up, hauled in the anchor and using the yuloh 
pushed us towards deeper water. I suppose, technically, we were 
aground, but with the flat bottom we slid over the mud and 
eventually found enough water to float free. Half an hour later I was 
eating breakfast, everything had been tidied up and put away and 
we were drifting with the current towards the harbour entrance.

By a quarter to seven the sail was up and we were making good 
progress with a following wind and tide through the harbour 
entrance. There was no need to worry about the chain ferry as it 
doesn't start until 7:00. Finally I was through, past shell bay and 
into the open sea.

Poole has a training wall along one side of the approach to keep 
the sand from Studland bay out of the channel. We rounded the 
light at the end of the wall and headed for Old Harry, the limestone 
stacks off Handfast Point to the south. I peek round the point at 
Swanage and then follow the bay back round past Studland village 
and out to the end of the training wall again.

As all seems to be under control I decide on a speed trial and set 
off for Bournemouth Pier to the NW, a distance of precisely 4 miles 
(on the GPS). We are fairly close hauled, and the wind is about F3. 
The journey takes 52 minutes giving 4.6m/h or 4.0kn. The return 
journey takes one hour giving 4m/h or 3.5kn - an average of 3.7kn 
over the 8 miles: and I must say, a very comfortable 8 miles.

It is now half past ten and I make my mistake for the day. I decide 
to go back into Studland Bay in search of an ice cream. I fail in 
my quest, and when I eventually get into the Swash Channel I find 
that the wind has swung round and is now dead on the nose. As I 
approach the entrance the wind becomes fluky, and I find that the 
tide is now against me as well. It is only running at about 1kn, not 
the 4-6kn that it can reach, but it still isn't helping, and there is the 
chain ferry to avoid now as well.

By about 1:30 we are finally clear of the entrance and are starting 
the beat through the islands and up the full length of the harbour. I 
elected to go up the south side of Brownsea Island, and this may 
have been a mistake. However, by 4:00 we were clear of the 
islands and passing the ferry terminal. The tide was now in our 
favour but even so I couldn't see me being home for tea (as I had 
told my wife I would be) so I phoned home and told them the 
situation.

As we passed Rockley Point (with the sailing school out in force 
as usual) I found we could just hold the course up the Wareham 
Channel. Then suddenly we couldn't hold the course any more, the 
tide had turned again. Half a dozen long tacks later we entered the 
river, the tide increased in strength and the wind dropped. I gave in 
to the inevitable and anchored till the tide turned again, cooking up 
some tea and watching a pair of swans building what I suppose 
was a nest, but might have been a castle.

A couple of hours later the tide is noticeably less, so I up anchor 
and scull the last half mile to the boatyard, arriving as dusk is 
falling. I quickly get LJ onto the trailer, but by the time we are ready 
to roll it is fully dark. The journey home is uneventful And I finally 
arrive only five and a half hours late.

One thing that is very noticeable is the interest in LJ. Everywhere I 
take it people will come up to me wanting to know what sort of boat 
it is, who the designer is and where they can find more information. 
Perhaps I should get some little cards printed with all the 
information so I can hand them out. If anyone I have spoken to has 
got this far please speak up and make yourself known.

This trip stood out as being educational. I certainly learnt to pay 
more attention to tides and wind shift which, in my motor boat, 
were just a minor irritant. But I also ended up with a great feeling of 
satisfaction that I had managed to get home despite the difficulties. 
Most of all it was great fun!

Hoping for calm nights

Al      
Yeovil, England.