To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
Date: Sat, 18 Jan 2020 00:51:47 -0800
Subject: Abel Tasman Trip Report

Well, it's summer down here in NZ and that means I'm sailing my Paradox on longer trips than I do in the winter time. I sail all year round down here. This time it was back to Abel Tasman National Park where I've been before. A very beautiful part of the world, but this time conditions weren't ideal as you'll read in the following report.

Abel Tasman Trip Report - 12/01/2020 – 18/01/2020

12/01/2020 – Drive to destination 6 ½ hours.

13/01/2020

Launch into Marahau Estuary just as the tide begins to ebb, but get caught on a sand bank while trying to decide (the tidal ranges in this region are about 4 metres, so things happen very quickly) whether it is safe to exit into a 20 knot SE.., so the decision is made for me! Spend the time waiting for the next high tide, mapping the channel using OpenCPN charting package on my Android phone. This was a sensible move. Left on the next high tide just before it peaked at 12.30am. Paddled out of the estuary using my mast head light and OpenCPN. Then the moon came up! The SE had moderated to 12 knots by now and I sailed straight out of Sandy Bay with high hopes. The wind died at 1.30am and I ghosted into the Adele Island anchorage at 2.30am, using my masthead light to navigate through the moored yachts until I was close to the shoreline. Trip takes 2 hours at 2 knots.

14/01/2020

I leave Adele Island at 9.00am in a light S of perhaps 6 knots. It dies within the hour and I bob around just north of Adele Island for the next two hours. My stomach can’t take it (although I notice I’m gradually hardening up) and an hour into the bobbing I am sea-sick. While not the best experience, I’m not incapacitated as I have been in the past. I curse and pray for wind from anywhere as the sun beats down, the sail slats and water-taxi’s race backwards and forwards around me, carrying the 4 million tourists that visit Abel Tasman annually. Suddenly, without warning, a 15 knot SE comes through and ‘Mini’ is charging along at hull speed on a heading just up from directly downwind. The front deck is regularly washed as ‘Mini’ ploughs into the back of the waves. This is exciting stuff! I alternate between sitting to leeward and to windward, but ‘Mini’ is such a heavy craft it makes no difference. The fizz boats have gone as the swells are getting too large for day trippers and I’m on my own. Off Bark Bay Reef the wind moderates to 10 knots and I get concerned but then it returns again and I think let’s just go the whole way to Totaranui and be done with it! For the next 3 hours the miles click off as I truck along slumped down on the seat with my left shoulder under the side deck. I see a keeler in the distance ahead sailing under jib only. Might I be catching them? Hard to tell, but they certainly don’t seem to be getting any smaller! Then I hear a motor. What’s this… another keeler passing me motor sailing? Unbelievable… perfect sailing conditions and they motor sail past me at 7 knots. The keelers disappear and I’m glad to see the last of them. How dare they squander such perfect conditions! I’m now just off Totaranui and a decision needs to be made fast! There’s a surf up on the beach and I’ve arrived about 30 minutes after high tide. I decide the best outcome will be to shoot the gap and get into the estuary without delay, since the strong wind behind me will overcome the ebbing tide. Parents and children frolicking in the estuary spot me coming and exit promptly. The sight of ‘Mini’ producing a large bow wave must be a terrifying sight! I starting surfing over the bar. ‘Mini’ spins to starboard (the sail is to port) on top of a wave and I’m preparing for disaster, but that very deep rudder digs in, I straighten up and sail sedately into the estuary. A women in the water still isn’t sure of my intentions and gives me a wary look expecting me to change course and run her down, but instead I go to the shoreline and set about anchoring. Trip takes 6 hours at 2.2 knots.

15/01/2020 – Spend time with friends camping at Totaranui, but sleep on the boat.

16/01/2020

Leave Totaranui Estuary on high tide at 3.00pm and an 8 knot SE. Make decent progress at first but then the wind dies and I become embayed. With every puff I head offshore and eventually at around 7.00pm I leave Awaroa Bay. There is a large SE swell left over from previous days and while I don’t get sea-sick this time, it is impossible to paddle into. Night begins to fall and still I’m going nowhere. For 4 hours, I’m tormented with winds coming from every corner of the compass and dying within minutes. I begin to question my sanity. Is it really sensible to be sitting in the darkness a mile offshore in a tiny boat with no means of locomotion apart from the wind? Finally… at 11.00pm a strong E of perhaps 15 knots springs up off Tonga Island and we’re racing again except this time it’s in total darkness and the moon doesn’t rise. At a mile offshore I’m confident I’m far away from any reefs and so I just go for it. Occasionally, I get thumped on the side by a roller and the rig is straining. Better not have a gear failure out here. I could reef, but we’re not out of control, so I’ll continue on for now. There’s a reef light towards shore. Better keep an eye on it… probably Bark Bay Reef. No worries, but check the OpenCPN chart just to be sure. What the hell, it’s the Pitt Head light! I’m going way faster than I thought! OK, need to be very careful now. I’m approaching Adele Island and have to enter the Astrolabe Roadstead. There’s rocks about and its pitch black. The ONLY way I’m going to successfully do this is to navigate using OpenCPN. I glance at OpenCPN to work out my heading and then put the phone underneath my seat and try to reconcile that with the dark land outline once my eyes adjust. Nothing seems right, but I just have to trust the charts. Eventually I get into the lee of Adele Island and the wind drops significantly, but I’m still worried about my position. I must be in the middle of the channel of the roadstead, but here it’s even darker, if that’s possible! At last, I see the mast head lights of the keelers moored under Adele Island. I paddle in at 12.30am. Trip takes 9 ½ hours at 1.4 knots, 3 ½ hours longer than when going the other direction.

17/01/2020

After summiting Adele Island I visit a friend’s 33ft steel junk rigged ketch moored just down from me. I moor up behind the ketch and hop into his inflatable dinghy. Cripes, this thing feels like I’m standing on an inflatable lilo and I could be flipped out of it at any moment. Obviously, I’m getting spoilt by the exceptional stability of a Paradox. Compared to ‘