From: creditscorenz@yahoo.com.au
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Subject: Re: Abel Tasman Trip Report 
Date: Wed, 05 Feb 2020 14:26:26 -0800

Hi John,

I'm hoping the videos give people a feeling of what it's like sailing a Paradox. Based on the hits I'm receiving, many people are interested in how to use a sprit rig too, probably more than those interested in building or buying a Paradox.

Would I build a Paradox again? Yes, for the following reasons:

1. I learned a lot about boat construction building her.
2. She's an incredibly safe boat. I'm not scared to sail her offshore.
3. She's very versatile, able to sail in shallow lakes AND offshore. Is there any other boat you know of that can do that?
4. As designed with her low windage cabin, easily dowsed rig and yuloh, she doesn't need an outboard motor. Outboard motors are more hassle than they're worth in tiny boats.
5. She's easily stored inside my garage, yet can be trailered anywhere... no problem.
6. She's a famous design and therefore a conversation starter. My previous boat was a Michalak Philsboat. It was a fine boat, but 'sailors' were offended by some of it's more unusual features and apt to show their ignorance with disparaging comments. A Paradox looks more conventional when rigged (when trailered with no rig or keel visible people often think she's some kind of drag boat and expect to see a huge motor inside) on the water and so people come up to talk to me about her. I've only received one disparaging comment about 'Mini', delivered behind my back, by an ignorant 'sailor'!
7. The interior boat camping set-up that Matt devised is superb. As far as tiny boats go, a Paradox is a wonderful craft to live on. It would be nice to have a permanently set up bed, but to do that, the boat's length must jump to 18ft from 14ft and then it's a completely different experience.To begin with, an 18ft boat won't fit in my garage. An 18ft boat is going to be more difficult to trailer, launch and retrieve solo and so it goes on.

Cheers,

Rob.