From: "nick bell" <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Feb 2020 19:39:33 +1030
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] Abel Tasman Trip Report
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io

It's a different class of boat but it looks fantastic. I love the handling of the Paradox when I come to beach it, dragging it up a creek or into very shallow water. It's light enough to handle easily. This other boat I think would be a handful at its 1500 lb weight and anchoring up would be the norm, so your bed would be rocking. My favourite day is one when the tide is out at night and incoming at dawn. I can beach and sleep solidly on land. And come morning, float away on the incoming tide and get sailing after a sound sleep. There are a number of slightly bigger boats and some a similar size that are buildable by most handymen, but my money is on my Paradox. I love it.

I have a VW kombi van and in Australia they are a cult type vehicle. We got lots of thumbs up and smiles in her and compared to our other modern vehicles it's not much of a car. But, it's cool, it's fun and we wouldn't trade it, it's great on small trips and can carry a heap of stuff between home and the shop nearby. I have had it twenty-six years and have driven round the country and lived it for a while. But, it's not as comfy as a modern better equipped car. So I guess it's horses for courses.

I have four boats. I built Paradox to go where I can't in an open small sailboat. This is by far the easiest boat to build, my first build. But when I took it out, offshore it was not so safe, even with the flotation I built into it. It's uncomfortable in rougher water, and you get a bit wet. Stevenson's Pocket Cruiser, it really is a lakes and rivers type craft. Simple to build, simple to sail, takes a while to rig though. Haven't camped in though. Week-long trips are fun in a Paradox, and packing the bed and waiting out headwinds are a fact of life in it. Planning is paramount in a Paradox.

Hope someone is out there sailing one now.

Nick

---- Original message ----
From: creditscorenz via Groups.Io <creditscorenz=3Dyahoo.com.au@groups.io>
Date: 7 Feb 2020, 4:56 pm
Subject: [paradoxsailboat] Abel Tasman Trip Report

At the risk of promoting other boats on here that aren't Paradoxes, there is one boat that I've seen that I think would behave like a Paradox with a similar build time, but would allow me to have that permanently made up bed. It would still be a single hander and have no outboard, but COMFORTABLE day sailing for two is a real possibility. She might go to weather a little bit better than a Paradox too with her original jib headed rig, not the lug yawl shown in the video. She's called Autumn Leaves from Chesapeake Light Craft. The construction process is interesting. You first create a central box that contains the companion way and hatch, the cooking station and bilge board boxes and then pull the hull sides around that using a Spanish windlass. But, as I've previously noted, Autumn Leaves at 18.5ft is more than TWICE as heavy as a Paradox when trailered. Is it really worth having all that extra weight, just so I don't have to put my bed away?