From: "boldav38" <mbolduc@triad.rr.com>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: Sail Trim
Date: Sat, 24 May 2003 19:13:20 -0000

I'm not quite sure what's happening since I usually see flutter on the leech rather than on the luff. It may have something to do with some stretching in the luff or simply that the halyard needs to be tighten up a bit. Still, I wouldn't be overly concerned. The main thing I've noticed over the years in Little Cruiser and in Matt's Paradox, that one tack is always better than the other simply because the airflow over the sail is disrupted by the mast. I guess this is just the tradeoff you have to live with in using a balanced lug sail.  

As for using an engine on Paradox, Matt has some very good arguments why you can learn to do without this "mechanical inconvenience". I think his best reasons are that they take up valuable space on a little boat and that they are expensive to own and to maintain.  My perspective is a little different.  I like using a motor, seeing it more as another "tool," like a GPS, to get from one place to another more easily. I've found that if you can keep them running they can help you buck strong contrary currents and they will let you cover serious distances on windless days. However, for this "convenience," I have to sacrifice optimal boat trim, carry 6+ gallons of explosive fuel onboard, and know how to maintain the damn thing anywhere. I think it's really a personal choice.  If you can do without a motor, then do it, and in the long run you will most likely be a better sailor.  When Mindy and I sailed in Matt's company for 2 months in the Bahamas, we almost always sailed together.  In the process we learned a lot about the intricacies of sailing- the changing tides, the subtle wind shiffs and the optimal sail trim.

On last comment that I'd like to make is that a yuloh is a MUST on board our little boats.  Not only will it allow you to push your boat along at 1-2 knots, but it is a great push pole in the shallows and you'll need it to fend off rocks and docks when you goof up.  If I had a choice between a motor and a yuloh, I would go for the yuloh.  Fortunately, we have both on Little Cruiser. Each serves a different purpose. When there's wind, we sail.  When it's calm and we want to move the boat moderate distances, we scull.  When we need to cover ground quickly on windless days, we start the motor and choke on the fumes. It's nice to have choices...