From: =?UTF-8?B?QW5kcsOpLUZyYW7Dp29pcyBCb3VyYmVhdQ==?= <bourbeau@videotron.ca>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Subject: Paradox sailing stability (was Re: Electronic device for race)
Date: Thu, 20 Feb 2020 08:06:42 -0500

In response to
This statement amazes me. Either you are exaggerating OR the conditions you are referring to were upwind sailing, with less than a 2 knot breeze in smooth water OR my much higher aspect Paradox sprit rig has turned 'Mini' cantankerous! I never adjust the rig once it's up, same as with the standing lug, but I most certainly use continuous tiller input in anything other than what I've described above. Even in those perfect conditions, I doubt I've gone any longer than 5 minutes without some kind of tiller input or weight shifting.

I concur with Alastair in that the Paradox will sail without tiller input for long periods of time.  I have personally sailed both Mk1 and Mk2, I find no significant difference. The Paradox will especially sail well close hauled without tiller input. I have done it for many kilometres and easily up to an hour without touching it.  I continuously fish standing in my Paradox while sailing.  When heading downwind, it will also sail without tiller input, but I find that I do need to stand and shift body weight to change the heading slightly to port or starboard.

I also have other boats with sprit sails and have used them intensively.  I really love the sprit sail for many reasons, especially for it’s simplicity, no possibility of boom accidents, and the fact I can use the sprit pole as a poling device when moving the boat upwind or in no-wind situations in shallow water.  But I would not even consider using one on the Paradox. One of the beauties of the Paradox as per plan is the roller furling which offers perfect and instantaneous reefing in any situation. Can’t imagine going without that feature once you’ve tasted it! “Why fix it if it ain’t broke?” Just my opinion, but I feel the Paradox sail is perfect as is and performance is outstanding when you push it hard.

I have photos, don’t know how to post them.

André-François
Saguenay, Canada