From: "nick bell" <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Apr 2020 07:30:20 +0930
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] What would you change on 2nd build?
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io

Hi,

I bought the best wood and ply, and it was expensive. I built mine six hours a day, five days a week and it took eight months. I did a lot of fussy things. It’s a lot quicker with proper wood. However, you learn a lot if you have to work around with poorer quality wood. I do that a lot when building garden stuff and furniture. Lighting is good, but where I camp light is your enemy. A million bugs will show up at night if you have a light and drive me mad. Mornings before dark, I find a head torch ok. Sailing at night, light is my enemy, it affects my night vision. I have one expensive very bright focusable torch. In case I want to see things at a distance, having said that, I've only ever used it as a curiosity. Never in anger approaching shore, etc.

I took out my water tank, used the boat under the floor, then had a trip without it, and promptly put it back in. My tank is PVC plastic and made by a 4WD shop that makes tanks for vehicles, cost about 300 dollars, and is perfect.

I went through several anchors, light plastic-coated ones that promised the earth and wouldn't damage the deck. They’re rubbish. I now have a big metal anchor and its metal deck fitting and it stops me dead when I need anchoring. It works very well. I have a short rope on deck and a connection in case I anchor in deeper water and a tonne of rope aboard.

Make sure you make a fuss when it comes to being rain-tight above in the hatch and seal the windows well, a little water coming in while you sleep is a pain. I was lucky and mine is watertight, rain-wise. I get one or two drops per hour in rain. They rest on the rear shelf, and I leave a rag there to cope with what could wet my sleeping gear.

Pulleys should be as large as you can afford. The rope runs easier over big diameter pulleys. The rudder faces where the blade meets the upper rudder must be a good flat fit, or it rattles and the string that lifts it can get caught. And it must swing down freely, or you lean over the back of the boat trying to push it down. I also have a deck hook or a boat hook on a telescopic pole; it’s the best thing on the deck after the anchor. It comes in handy for all kinds of things.

Hope I haven’t taken too much of your time raving on here.

Nick
THOR