From: "alastair" <paradox@as6jg.freeuk.com>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Date: Wed, 15 Apr 2020 16:06:56 +0100
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] What would you change on 2nd build?

Nothing major! 

The cleats for the halyard and furling line are shown at the wrong angle. Make the fixing surface more horizontal so that the lines can be locked and released without having to move off the seat.

Split the locker covers on the sole so that they can be opened while sitting on the seat.

Put shelves on the bottom of the rear side lockers to keep stuff out of the damp.

Put a recess in each of the seat runners so that when the seat is flipped up it drops into them and forms a nice comfortable sloping backrest.

Use a single line for halyard and reefing, one end tied to the yard, 
the other to the furling drum. Then you don't have lots of loose rope in the cabin.

Assemble the vent box to the bulkhead before assembling the bulkhead to the sides. (though leave one side off the box to allow later access for fitting the blocks). Then fit the mast to the partners and step with the bulkhead and mast horizontal. This will save a lot climbing on and off the hull.

Oh, and make all the spars, rudder etc first, while the workplace is empty. Then when you finish the hull you can immediately go sailing.

These are all things I either did during the build, and was glad I did, or have done later and wished I had during the build. I won't go into the things I did during the build and wished I hadn't. I didn't fit the lightning conductor, but in the UK lightning is not really a problem. I did fit a masthead nav light.

In general trust the plans, Matt knew what he was doing, and if you do want to change something be aware of the knock-on effect it may have to other parts of the system.

--
Sail when you can, row when you must, motor only when you have to be at work in the morning.

Alastair Law
Yeovil, England.
<http://www.little.jim.freeuk.com>



-- 
This email has been checked for viruses by AVG.
https://www.avg.com