From: "dlb" <dlb@dixie-net.com>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>
Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 18:34:18 -0500
Subject: Re: Further adventures of Little Jim (long)

Great story Al. I have a solution for the fogging, I use anti-fog optical cleaner, it works great on Whisper. Keep the stories coming !

David


----- Original Message -----

From: "Alastair" <openboat@asjg.clara.co.uk>
To: <paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com>; <microcruising@yahoogroups.com>
Sent: Wednesday, May 28, 2003 2:59 PM
Subject: [paradoxbuilders] Re: Further adventures of Little Jim (long)

This is the story of the landmark voyage of Little Jim. It is a story of high emotion, of elation and despair. It has its high points and its low points (especially during the lumpy bits off St Albans head), but mostly it is the story of a journey travelled during a rather nice bank holiday weekend in May.

We sailed from Poole harbour to Portland harbour and back again. According to The Shell Pilot To The English Channel this is 27 nautical miles each way. During the 4 day trip the wind was constant F3-4 S to SW. For a map of the area see:

http://www.streetmap.co.uk/newmap.srf?x=382500&amp;y=79500&amp;z=6&amp;
sv=382500,79500&amp;st=4&amp;mapp=newmap.srf&amp;searchp=newsearch.srf (Make sure the whole line is entered into your browser.)

We launched, just after lunch, into the river at a boatyard to the north of Ridge, near Wareham. Flushed with the success of my previous trips into the harbour I immediately hoist the sail and made a fool of myself by completely failing to sail down the river. Having disentangled myself from the bank I continued down river under oar power until we reached more open water where a much more successful attempt at sailing was made.

The trip through the harbor was pleasant, and uneventful, except for a shower of rain which gave me the opportunity to try out the main bad weather feature of the Paradox design. I popped down inside and shut the hatch. Almost immediately a drawback made itself apparent. It was hot and humid, and the windows quickly steamed up. This later proved to be less of a problem on the open sea, but in a busy harbor it was a bit of a worry. I managed to avoid everything, however, by employing another feature of the paradox design and moved out of the channel into the shallows where the other boats couldn't go.

The rain soon passed and we continued through the harbor, south of Brownsea island, and anchored behind a point to the south of the harbor entrance. Here disaster struck. I found I had not replenished the coffee jar since the last trip. Would there be enough to last the whole journey? Only time would tell. To relieve my depression I went ashore for a walk. a pleasant exercise as most of the south side of the harbor is a nature reserve, and is designated as an area of outstanding natural beauty.

In the night it rained quite hard, but I remained snug inside. We were underway by 0537(GMT) and were dodging the chain ferry in the harbor entrance at 0550. It was not till later that I realized I was still operating under 'land' rules, and that as a seaman I should have been on the move a couple of hours earlier.

We ran on a broad reach with a favorable tide past Handfast Point. Off Swanage are the Peveril ledges, a nasty bit of water when the tide is running, but easily avoided as there is a red can buoy off the end. By 0730 we had rounded Durlston Head and Anvil Point and were close hauled but heading away from the land. At about this time I was sick. This is not a reflection on the Paradox, merely an arrangement that I have with Neptune and I have to pay my dues every trip off-shore.

The next feature of interest along the coast is St Albans Head. This is what the Channel Pilot has to say about it. "Off St Albans Head there is a considerable tidal race ....... It extends some 3 miles seaward except during southerly winds when it lies closer inshore. It may be avoided by giving the land a berth of 3 miles". Peter Bruce in his book Inshore Along The Dorset Coast has this to say about it. "[The race] is well known to experienced navigators for its ferocity at spring tides, This is created by a four mile long precipitous underwater ledge, which, by halving the depth, can throw up furious breaking waves on the tidal lee. Even when the surrounding area is flat calm a boisterous sea develops to be heard at some distance. this can be a chilling sound at night. As might be expected the race is at its worst with wind against tide".

As we approached the race we were about 2 miles off: but it was near to neap tides and the wind was on shore (ish): but it was wind against tide. Well, its too late now anyway. Then someone threw a bucket of water at me. After they had done it again I took the hint and retreated below. Green water was regularly coming right over the top of Little Jim, but we never really felt in any danger and were still sailing well. When I finished Little Jim I applied a boot topping and a sheer line with 2-inch wide PVC tape. At some point about now the front 4 feet of sheer line on both bows was washed up over the deck! If it hadn't stayed stuck at the stem it would probably have disappeared altogether.

During this time not a drop of water came through the hatch, but I could hear water pouring in somewhere! Further investigation showed it to be water running in the deck vent into the vent trunk, and then out through the drain. In fact throughout the whole trip, there was hardly enough water in the bottom to soak up with a sponge, and I think most of that came in on my shoes when going ashore on the beach.

By 1200 we were past Lulworth and on the home straight with less than 8 miles to go. But by now the tide had turned, and although it isn't strong in Weymouth bay it was no longer helping me as it had been up till now. Perhaps it is best to draw a veil over the next 8 hours except to say that I spent 3 of them within 2 miles of the harbor entrance. I certainly wished I had an engine then (though would it have started after going through St Albans Race?)

We anchored in the SW corner of Portland Harbor, just north of the Helipad and had a very peaceful night. Before dropping off to sleep I was fascinated by the selection of noises coming from the water lapping under the transom. My favorite was one that sounded just like a sink plunger being thrust into a basin of water.

In the Morning I sculled up the beach and landed to use some public toilets. I then made contact with a friend of Jeff UK who had an interest in a Paradox and we talked for half an hour or so. As the wind was now coming up again I decided to get straight off and by 0900 was clear of the harbor with the boom well out to port and the water chuckling under the bow