From: "Deric Tallman" <ftallman2000@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Subject: Re: Motor on the Paradox 
Date: Mon, 15 Mar 2021 08:00:16 -0700

Ahoy Andre-Francois,

I was hoping you would add to the post. Thank you.

Your contribution does argue the reasons why a motor is not an advantage on a boat designed to be absent of one; Matt L didn't use a motor, but I believe his friend Dave B occasionally did, I agree with you on all those points you made, which is why I have not used a motor on my paradox for the past three years. Nonetheless, there is an advantage to having an auxiliary power and as demonstrated by many dox owners who have a motor.

I was interested in how others have approached the issue of having a motor so that there are options. For example, if I wanted to navigate the New York, USA canal system using the 'dox, sculling would be an option, but my arm and shoulder may complain after a long journey -- sailing on the canal is not feasible. It would it be nice to motor along the canal and stop to see the villages along the canal. In the canal example the motor may be convenient.

It is interesting to see how others approached adding a motor to the boat -- IMHO wasn't designed to have one.

The electric motor option is interesting because the technology is changing and improving. The electric motors for kayaks are better. Things are new that didn't exist 5 years ago so refreshing the conversation topic of a motor on a paradox is helpful. Perhaps in 5 years from today there will be a motor that is extremely efficient and light weight and easy to mount on a boat like the paradox. Who knows?

Very glad to hear from you. You have made many adventure trips on your paradox and your Gorfnik. I still think back when you allowed me to sail in your Gorfnik, and we also sailed on your ketch. Once we can travel between our countries I hope we can do some sailing together again. My dox and Gorfnik is ready.

If there are others who have opinions on motor mounting on the back or side of paradox, stories to share about motor issues, line issues, or just opinion on the matter, please chime in. By doing so, we also help keep this forum alive, and prevent it from going stale.

Looking forward to reading your posts,
Deric