From: "nick bell" <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] Motor on the Paradox
Date: Tue, 16 Mar 2021 07:34:27 +1030

I bought the quadrant throttle and had it inside the cabin on the left hand side, so I could use it more easily. I bought the extension power lead and had the battery in the rear compartment, remote from the motor. So no battery outside and the throttle handy alongside me. It was convenient but it’s simply not made to take a pounding. When mine arrived, new in the box it was not properly assembled. All the screws along the main shaft were loose. On the second sail with it, the shaft turned hard and would not return. I had to be towed in. I stuck with the motor and had to be towed in once more, this time it was because it can’t handle hard seas. I sail in all kinds of weather here. Then I gave up, and bought a Honda 2.3 (and made several small fuel containers). It has, so far, never let me down. The Torqeedo is a leading edge product with particular uses but NOT offshore. They are, in my humble experience, simply not strong enough. In calm water they are fine.
Nick

On 16 Mar 2021, at 12:32 am, André-François Bourbeau <bourbeau@videotron.ca> wrote:

Gentlemen sailors,

In my opinion, the design reason behind the Paradox is precisely the fact that it needs no motor. Why restrict yourself to such a small boat if you are going to use an engine? I hate the stink, trouble, weight, line tangles, fuel danger and maintenance problems a motor invokes. With electric engines, then it’s the weight and maintenance of batteries which is involved, plus the poor performance. The avoidance of a motor is the main reason why I chose the Paradox, I feel that proper training with a well balanced yuloh is a perfect complement to the sail on this boat. I also own a 26 foot Norwalk Island Sharpie, it has an engine, I use it to entertain guests which have to be back at a specific time, that’s what motors are for- big boats and schedules.

When I travel with the Paradox, the conversation starter is always "What, no motor? You came all this way without an engine?" Put a motor on it and you are just another normal boat.

As far as security is concerned, my experience says that a motor will always fail you when you need it the most, I prefer to learn to do without.

Just my 2 cents.

Respectfully, I will still like you if you think differently!

André
-----------------------------------------------
André-François Bourbeau
Saguenay, Québec, Canada