From: "nick bell" <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] Build or buy
Date: Sun, 10 Oct 2021 19:48:52 +1030

Sailed around the Gulf waters here in SA mostly
Roll Testing was done in front of the Sydney Hobart practice here in Adelaide

I thought if I get in trouble there were plenty of boats out to help
Got lots of interest , smiles waves and pictures from 12 metre class boat crews

Did three to seven day trips , was a hoot , very tiring though

Got towed in once in rotten weather , a local fisherman , not me ,called the authorities , I was happy to ride it out , however , having seen a sea rescue cruiser sent for me , I would never refuse help at sea . Imagine I said no and hours later in the dark I was in trouble , two call outs in one day for one sailor .

On 10 Oct 2021, at 5:21 pm, tony woollcombe <ashburycottage@hotmail.com> wrote:

Thanks Nick for the info. Do you have any exterior/ interior photos?
Out of interest where did you sail her?
Regards Tony

On 10 Oct 2021, at 4:01 pm, nick bell via groups.io <nickbell1955=3Dyahoo.com@groups.io> wrote:

The boat is in good condition on a modified jet ski trailer
All in good order
The sail was professionally made
The mast was made by a ship Wright at his workshop in Mt. Barker SA
It's anti fouled on the bottom and has good quality fittings , Ronson brand pulleys
The boat is constructed as per the plan without modification
The water tank is removable and made from PVC , again made professionally by Abber Tanks in Queensland , I have several of his tanks and they all are sturdy and well made
The windows need renewing they are crazed but intact
The anchor is a big expensive job with its own custom roller , it will hold in any ground , I tried three types of anchor and this one will hold under any condition , it's over sized and I've slept confidently in the boat at anchor . I tend to sleep ashore , pull it up on a beach and sleep till the tide changes , it's an adventurous capable fun boat , made very tough .
I made sure each joint was 100% glued , no gaps . The bottom of the hull has two layers of double bias thick as hell fibreglass cloth on it , and is made with 19 mm marine ply , the whole boat was made with marine ply , some Kapur and some Oregon as well , it's tough as hell . The mast is a bid's mouth hollow round mast made from hoop pine .
There is buoyancy foam used throughout the build in the fore deck side deck and transom and rear and front compartment floor , by my calculations it would float if swamped .
I've rolled it on purpose and it came up easily with no action on my part but to lay there waiting , it came up fast . Some months later I then got rolled at sea by a breaking wave that caught me broadside , it came up fast once the sail dumped its load of water . I have supreme confidence in its ability to keep me safe .
There is a large expensive off shore lit compass in the gap between the mast box and the port side hull . All shelves etc are there as per the plan . It cost me $8500 to build five years ago and took eight months to complete . It has a Honda 2.5 hp outboard and the Yuloh oar , though I e never used the Yuloh they are useless at sea , in calm water they are fine , if you have the knack to use them .
This boat is a genuine great built hardy example of a fun machine that I have sailed a lot , I can no longer sail much , I had an accident and can no longer enjoy sailing as I once did .
Paradoxes are lively to sail , always moving , they need practice to get the best out of them . I have made two other boats before this one and had the ship Wright help on the harder bits on all my boats .
Hope this is useful info
Nick

<image0.jpeg>

On 10 Oct 2021, at 11:23 am, Lukey Moonshine <lukey.moonshine@gmail.com> wrote:

I live in Tasmania and am very interested, please get in touch

On Saturday, October 9, 2021, nick bell via groups.io <nickbell1955=3Dyahoo.com@groups.io> wrote:
> Hi , I live in south australia and my Paradox is for sale
> Any one interested can get more pics and details from me
> Nick Bell