From: "nick bell" <nickbell1955@yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] Build or buy
Date: Mon, 11 Oct 2021 19:35:41 +1030
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io

The tank has a fill and and outlet and an air inlet pipe , it’s about 70 litres and countours the floor , tall at the front and smaller at the back . I unscrew the middle floor panels and it just gets out the main hatch . The removable seat was too hard on my bum , I made a seat with upholstery straps and it was a little better , now I use a kiddies bean bag it’s great . The sleeping area is big enough for me at 5’6” , I am always exhausted when finished sailing , so I beach the boat , move stuff out of my way , put my head on the bean bag and collapse into a deep sleep . I’m always comfy , I’ve camped out for my whole life and in there I’m warm and dry , if a bit messy .
Petrol is kept in one litre bottles in the rear , I don’t like a big fuel container , if I go for a week I take five litres and never use it all . It’s a Honda 2.5 hp , great motor if a bit noisy . The all up weight is unknown but it’s damn heavy , four grown men can’t move it when it’s in full trim . I used all the recommended ballast and can only say , add all the ballast and keep all the weight down low . I bought the jet ski trailer second hand so I’ve no idea what make it is . It bends slightly under the weight of the boat . It’s a heavy thing for its size , I used some Kapur in the base of the boats interior bulkheads , it looks great and is as tough as steel . Heavy too . Weight must be kept low , I have a long long chain in the very front locker , it helps trim the boat and may come in handy to help anchoring in very rough conditions , my main anchor has a seven metre length of chain too .
After back packing and bush walking this boat is fantastic , load it the hell up , keep it organised daily and take what you want , lots of water lots of food , spares etc . It’s amazing what will go in a paradox .

On 11 Oct 2021, at 9:52 am, tony woollcombe <ashburycottage@hotmail.com> wrote:

Morning Nick, 
Congratulations on a lovely looking Paradox build. 
Some questions 
There appears to be 3 pipes leading into the water tank under floor near the vent box. 
Are these for filling. How many litres does the water tank hold and is it easy to remove?
There also seems t9 be a box where the removable seat would be, is this correct?
When lying down what is the length of sleeping area?
By the way, I’ve read somewhere a wheelbarrow inner tube acts as a very good cushion.
Where to you keep the petrol can for the out board motor?
What is the all up weight of the trailer and the Patadox.?
Last what is the make and  length of the jet ski trailer?
All the best
Tony