From: "amgraham2001" <amgraham2001@yahoo.com.au>
To: paradoxbuilders@yahoogroups.com
Subject: Aussie Paradox
Date: Tue, 10 Jun 2003 02:47:19 -0000

Greetings fellow Paradox builders 

This is my first post so I will introduce myself.

My name is Andrew Graham and I live in Brisbane, Australia.  I owned and cruised in a 17 foot trailer sailer for about 10 years but have been landbound for the last 11 years (I'm 43). I've modified but not built a boat before.

I have had Paradox plans for the best part of a year now but have only recently got the conditions right to start construction.  A covered patio had to be made first to build the hull under.  Then a period of wet weather convinced me I also needed a shed too so funds allocated for starting the hull were diverted to that project (money well spent).   

I have posted some pictures of the frames set up on little feet in my shed under "Aussie Paradox" - that's all I've done so far. 
Note that I haven't constructed the frames as per the plans -  The changes have not been discussed with or approved by the designer and am not suggesting that other builders adopt any of these changes. 

Construction details in no particular order:

All frames and transom are cut in one piece are from a single sheet of 2400 x 1200 x 25mm CD structural ply however a better grade will be used for other components - probably BB Australian Hoop Pine ply.  
Australian manufactured plywood is 2400 x 1200 so Aussies who want to use Matt's cutting layout will need to use some larger imported ply sheets.

The transom is cut from the centre of  frame 4 and a divider of a thinner ply screwed to the aft face of frame 4.  This change gains 25 mm bunk length.

An offcut ply strip about 20mm wide was glued to part of the long edge of the ply sheet to allow frame 3 to be cut in one piece.  

Due to thickness of ply there are no cleats for attaching sides and bottom to frame except for one on the bottom of the transom.   I test nailed into predrilled ply endgrain and cant see any holding or splitting problems.

The minimum depth of the frames over openings is about 80mm so I dont intend adding deck beams to frames 1, 2 and the transom.  Cleats for floor and forward bins are all from 25mm ply as is the entire vent trunk base. 

The mid bins are not being installed to allow extra footroom for sleeping 2 up.

The aft bins fit flush into recesses in frames 3 and 4 and slots in floor cleats.

Vent trunk sides will attach directly to edge of ply on frame 2 hence the extra opening on port side and routed slots to deck level.  

I have made provision for water tanks but they are not a certainty yet.

Vent drain has already been laminated in place in the base which will mean an extra piece of tube has to be added to bottom later.

Using some dodgy geometry/art I have cut the tiller opening in the transom and vent trunk cleat - thicker ply so larger slot seems required.

I was impressed by the accuracy of the plans with sides of frames measuring within 1mm of dimensions on projected hull side panels.  Frame bevels were taken from the lines drawing using protractor and the method explained in "The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction" (both about the same result).  Bevels were cut with sabre saw (adjust angle, cut into scrap, check angle of cut, repeat until angle correct) and a batten on temporary setup frames showed them to be quite fair and that side panels would be flush with the frame edge. Although this is not part of Matt's construction sequence it gives peace of mind.

I have made a simple ladder jig which enables my standard 7 1/4 inch circular saw to cut accurate beveled chine log and sheer clamps from 19mm stock (chine double / sheersingle).  Dimensions will be slightly less than the plans show. 

There must be other members who have commenced construction but have not communicated with the group - please do so. 

I dont expect to give another progress report for some months as I am accumulating construction funds for now.   I'm sure most Paradox builders are familiar with this predicament.  I think a good boat for about $5000 Aus is achievable.

I hope this has been of interest to you.

Andrew