From: "Glen Maxwell" <ifida@nefcom.net>
To: <microcruising@yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Re: [microcruising] Re: Anchor Rodes
Date: Wed, 11 Jun 2003 08:40:28 -0400


Hi DC,

    I did not want to carry a dirty anchor inside (or even a cleaned one due to the odors absorbed by the rode) either but in practice it has not been a problem, yet. My practice is to set the anchor from the stern and then to walk the rode to the bow chock leaving it cleated to the stern cleat. when I'm ready to get underway I hoist sail and get every thing stowed away and then while standing in the companionway hatch I flip the rode out of the bow chock and haul the anchor in while the sail luffs on the starboard tack. As long as you have plenty of room to drift, it is an easy exercise to whip the rode around in the water to clean it and then of course to clean the anchor as it comes up. I flake my rode into a canvas ice bag and then stow the anchor (7 lb Delta) on top of the rode and store the lot below in the locker designated on the plans. A few years back I started using the more expensive braided nylon anchor line and have never regretted it. The higher cost is more then off set by the fact that the line always remains supple even after years of use, it is very easy on the hands, does not seem to tangle at all and allows you to go down one size because of its added strength. However I use 3/8" as a minimum because it is easier on the hands then smaller rode. As stated earlier, odor has not been a problem yet but my thinking is that a little air freshener sprayed into the bag will resolve it if it should become an issue.
    As for leaving the bag on the after deck, I have had one bad experience when the bag rolled overboard (rode still cleated to aft cleat) while trying to clear a fishing pier with the current setting me against it. After getting underway and sculling like a mad man up wind to clear the pier I fell off and sheeted in only to have the bag go over board as soon as the boat heeled. Fearing the anchor would set and foul me into the pier I hauled it in like crazy and the only damage done was to my pride as I listened to the hoots and cat calls from the fishermen on the pier as I sailed away. A very simple fix is to have a bungee cord stretched across the afterdeck to stuff the bag under.

Tailwinds

Glen