From: "haluk_74" <haluk_74@yahoo.com>
To: paradoxsailboat@groups.io
Date: Wed, 8 Feb 2023 10:10:57 +0000 (UTC)
Subject: Re: [paradoxsailboat] Build started/Deck beams/Carbon Fiber Mast/

Hi there,

I am sending you a picture of a simple wood bending jig. I bent 19mm thick oak pieces ripped from solid oak skirting boards. No steaming was involved in the process. I put the oak pieces in a little pool for 4 days at least. Once completely soaked oak starts bending slowly under pressure and takes shape. I fitted the pieces on a fence post(100mm) and I left the wood for drying in my garage. Not a quick process but it works for me.

P.S. I suspect this "cold water" process won't work for pine. You might need steam for pine. Or, if you need a quick build, just laminate thinner pine layers under clamp pressure as in this 2nd pic. I laminated 5-6 mm thick pine and meranti layers in that project.

Good Luck,
Haluk

On Wed, 8 Feb 2023 at 5:02, E Blohm via groups.io<eblohm=3Drocketmail.com@groups.io> wrote:   
Thanks for everyone’s input. So the plywood de lamination issue in making the beams had me reading through every post about deck beams today. I picked up some great tips from the read through, especially building the jig from the BOTTOM of the beam…now I have to modify my jig but at least I didn’t make 7 unusable beams!!!

I think how I am going to approach this is by making the laminated plywood for beams on Bulkheads 1,2,5,6 since they have bulkhead support in the event of de-lamination and use solid Mahogany strips (laminated) for 3,4 as they are unsupported and solid wood should be stronger or at least not separate like ply “could” the solid beams are coming out to 48mm but I can either sand the 3mm off or set them 3mm lower on the cutout bulkheads I’m thinking

I also saw someone laid out the bulkhead patterns and cut those into 6mm ply and glued/screwed a 3/4” hardwood to it. This option seems way easier but know nothing about that techniques strength?

Also researching 9x6mm vs 5x9mm for laminations strength, any ideas on that are welcome!

Erik